 1 Boston Legal  
Schmidt Happens 
Season 1, Episode 11 
Airdate:  January 9, 2005 
Written by David E. Kelley 
© 2005 David E Kelley Productions.  All Rights Rese rved 
Transcribed by Sheri for boston-legal.org [version updated June 7, 2006] 
 
The Men’s Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore is leisurely relieving himself at the he ad, deep in thought.  Shirley Schmidt walks in, tur ns 
on a faucet, inspecting the fixtures. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Who the hell are you? 
Alan Shore:   It’s not who, so much as what.  This is a men’s r oom.  What’s your name, fella? 
Shirley Schmidt:   I’m Shirley Schmidt.  Pardon the intrusion, but o ne of our assistants is suing us under Title 
9—claiming, among other things, the men have better  fixtures. 
Alan Shore:   shaking off, and zipping up   So, you’re Shirley Schmidt of Crane, Poole and . . . 
Shirley Schmidt:   Schmidt. 
Alan Shore:   extending his hand to shake hers   Alan Shore.  It’s a pleasure. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Surely, you intend to wash that first. 
Alan Shore:   I keep an extremely clean penis.  Walks over to the sink  
Shirley Schmidt:   I know all about you. 
Alan Shore:   And I, you.  There’s much written in stall number  2.  I pictured you younger.  Much. 
Shirley Schmidt:   A smart attorney recognizes who he can or cannot rattle. 
Alan Shore:   He also knows a good rattle when he sees one. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Since I’m your boss, I can’t return your sexual b anter, but I will say for the record that if I were  
looking for a rattle, he would be taller, he would be better-looking, he would be more evolved than a junior in 
high school. 
Alan Shore:   I prefer the juniors in high school. 
Shirley Schmidt:   He would be something other than a self-loathing narcissist with a dwarf fetish, and, yes, 
judging from what I got a glimpse of in the mirror when I first entered the room, he would be bigger.  Much.  
She turns and walks out.  
Alan Shore:   My, my, my. 
 
[credits] 
 
Hallway at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
A paralegal is walking down the stairs. 
Lori Colson:   from off camera   She’s been in the New York office the last 3 year s.  Rumor has it, Lewiston 
called her back to get things into shape. 
Now we see Lori Colson and Sally Heep walking towar d the camera, talking. 
Sally Heep:   What things? 
Lori Colson:   Us things.  Litigation has been under-performing,  Sally.  Plus our image around town is becoming 
that of . . . 
Denny Crane:   Denny Crane. 
Lori Colson:   Exactly.  Truth is, we need a kick in the ass.  I ’m glad she’s back. 
Paul Lewiston:   Ah, Lori . . . 
Lori Colson:   Is Shirley Schmidt really back? 
Paul Lewiston:   Temporarily.  I need you in the conference room o n another matter.  It’s urgent. 
Sally Heep:   I’m available. 
Paul Lewiston:   As soon as you can, please. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Denny Crane enters. 
Denny Crane:   Why is she back? 
Brad Chase:   Apparently Lewiston asked her to return. 
Denny Crane:   Why?  2 Brad Chase:   This I do not know. 
Denny Crane:   I do not want Shirley Schmidt in this building. 
Brad Chase:   Denny, she’s a named partner.  You can’t exactly ban her presence. 
Denny Crane:   I’m gonna tell you something I haven’t told anybo dy.  I once had a torrid—torrid—affair with that 
woman. 
Brad Chase:   First, everybody knows that . . . 
Shirley Schmidt:   entering   And second, the word would be “horrid.” 
Denny Crane:   Shirley, this firm isn’t big enough for the two o f us. 
Shirley Schmidt:   I agree.  It would be best if we could be in diff erent cities, but it’s our differences, ironically,  
that call for me to be here now. 
Denny Crane:   What differences, specifically? 
Shirley Schmidt:   Well, for starters, I still know how to practice law.  I don’t have to go around saying my name 
out loud in order to remember it. 
Denny Crane:   I don’t want you here. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Is it . . . because . . . you still desire me? 
Denny Crane:   Ha.  I’m over my wrinkle fetish.  You don’t arous e me, Shirley. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Oh, please.  All I have to do is say those two co mbustible little words.  whispering in his ear  
Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane gasps.  Shirley Schmidt smiles, and wal ks out.  Denny Crane turns to Brad Chase. 
Denny Crane:   She’s still hot. 
 
Alan Shore’s Office 
Alan Shore is reading his newspaper. 
Nora Jacobs:   knocks   Alan, there’s a guy on the phone.  He isn’t a cli ent.  He picked us out of the Yellow 
Pages.  He said he’s committed a crime, and he need s to speak to a lawyer. 
Alan Shore:   We advertise in the Yellow Pages? 
Nora Jacobs:   He sounded really upset.  What should I do? 
Alan Shore gets up, puts his paper down, and walks to the desk.  Squinting at the phone, he points at 
the blinking “hold” light.  Of note is that during this entire interchange with his assistant, Alan Sh ore’s 
attention is on the assistant and her outfit and sh oes, not the criminal. 
Alan Shore:   Line four? 
Nora Jacobs:   Yes. 
Alan Shore:   punching a button on his speaker phone.   This is Alan Shore.  If you’re a criminal, please  state 
your name and the nature of your crime  craning his neck to watch the assistant walk out th e door   at the 
sound of the tone.  He punches a button on the phone, and it beeps.  
Bernard Ferrion:   I killed my mother. 
Alan Shore:   picking up the phone   Sir? Excuse me? 
Bernard Ferrion:   This is a lawyer, right? What I say is privileged , right? 
Alan Shore:   Might have been wise to establish that before tel ling me you killed Mother, but, yes, we’ll call thi s 
privileged. 
Bernard Ferrion:   It was an accident.  Now I—I don’t know what to d o. 
Alan Shore:   Okay.  Where is Mother now? 
Bernard Ferrion:   On the kitchen floor. 
Alan Shore:   Okay.  And have you called for an ambulance or . . . 
Bernard Ferrion:   She’s dead.  I don’t want to call the police.  Th ey’d arrest me, wouldn’t they? 
Alan Shore:   Typically.  bending over the desk, searching for a pen and pape r   Why don’t you give me your 
name and address there? 
 
Conference Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Lori Colson enters a meeting between Paul Lewiston and John Zenawi 
Paul Lewiston:   Ah, here she is.  John, this is Lori Colson.  Lori Colson and John Zenawi shake hands   Lori, 
John Zenawi—CEO of Hanley Tech. 
John Zenawi:   Very nice to meet you. 
Lori Colson:   My pleasure. 
Paul Lewiston:   Please sit.  John is a longtime client of our cor porate department. 
Lori Colson:   Yes.  I think I’ve done some antitrust work for y our company on occasion.  3 Paul Lewiston:   He’s here today because . . . John, would you lik e to explain? 
John Zenawi:   nods   I was born in Sudan.  My father transferred to th e States when I was five.  I’ve lived here 
since.  Most of my extended family remains in Sudan .  One of my cousins was murdered there last week. 
Lori Colson:   I’m very sorry. 
John Zenawi:   It was the 11 th  family member to have been killed.  I can’t begin to describe the sense of futility I 
feel.  I need to do something, Miss Colson.  I’ve b een fortunate to have made a lot of money and I can  no 
longer sit passively.  So, as preposterous as it ma y sound, and as expensive as it may be, I want to s ue the 
government. 
Lori Colson:   Well, our courts wouldn’t have jurisdiction over the Sudanese government.  I’m sure Paul told you 
that. 
Paul Lewiston:   He’s not looking to sue the Sudanese government. 
John Zenawi:   I want to go after the United States. 
Lori Colson:   On what grounds? 
John Zenawi:   That is what I need you to tell me. 
Paul Lewiston:   Typically, Lori, whenever there’s a case that can ’t be brought, I run it by you.  You call me 
insane, among other things more colorful, you exit the room, then return the next day with a crazy ide a.  We 
need that idea, Lori. 
John Zenawi:   If I can get into court, Miss Colson, I can make some noise.  That is what I’m desperate to do 
here.  Put this issue in the spotlight a little, cr eate maybe an outcry of sorts. 
Lori Colson:   I don’t mean to sound harsh, but the genocide goi ng on in Sudan has been covered quite a bit by 
the press, Mr. Zenawi, and the American people have  spoken.  They don’t care. 
John Zenawi:   Well, I guess for my own peace of mind, I need to  do whatever I can. 
 
Maddie Tyler’s Office 
Maddie Tyler is closing a file cabinet. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Maddie. 
Maddie Tyler:   Yes. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Hello, dear.  I’m Shirley Schmidt.  shaking her hand   I read your Title 9 complaint last night.  
It’s very well drafted.  You obviously hired an exc ellent attorney.  You’re fired, Maddie. 
Maddie Tyler:   You can’t . . . You can’t fire me for bringing a Title 9. 
Shirley Schmidt:   What are you going to do, sweetheart? Sue me? You ’ve already done that.  Call your 
persuasive lawyer.  Tell him to add a count for wro ngful termination.  Ba-bye. 
Denny Crane:   Ah! 
Shirley Schmidt:   By now, I’m sure you’ve run to Paul Lewiston. 
Denny Crane:   No.  I’m coming directly to you because I don’t c are what Paul Lewiston wants.  I’m Denny 
Crane.  Crane comes before Schmidt. 
Shirley Schmidt:   You refer, of course, to when we were intimate. 
Denny Crane:   Shirley, I demand to know your agenda.  You alway s have one.  So, please . . . please . . . 
Shirley Schmidt:   I told you my agenda, Denny.  It’s to fix things.   Sees Sally over Denny Crane’s shoulder 
and stops her.   Excuse me.  What’s your name? 
Sally Heep:   Uh, Sally Heep. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Very nice outfit, Sally.  Can you spell? Wear som ething more appropriate.  Pretend you’re a 
lawyer. 
Denny Crane:   This woman happens to be an excellent attorney. 
Shirley Schmidt:   She also happens to have a name.  What is it?  Pause, as Denny Crane tries to remember   
Time’s up.  Ba-bye.  whispers in Denny Crane’s ear   Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane gasps.  Shirley Schmidt leaves Sally He ep and Denny Crane in the hallway. 
 
The Porch of the Ferrion Home 
Alan Shore rings the doorbell; Bernard Ferrion—a li ttle man—opens the door. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Could you please state your name? 
Alan Shore:   Alan Shore. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Um, Mr. Shore.  Thank you for coming.  I didn’t k now what to do or . . . This is a horrible 
thing.  Oh, I’m sorry.  Where are my manners? May I  offer you something to drink? 
Alan Shore:   Maybe we should start with the kitchen. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Yes.  Okay.  Um . . . I apologize in advance for,  you know . . .  4 Alan Shore:   The mess. 
Bernard Ferrion:   I didn’t mean for this to happen.  I don’t know w hat to do.  points at a woman lying on the 
floor of the kitchen   See? I told you. 
Alan Shore:   following Bernard Ferrion into the kitchen   Mr. Ferrion, you really do need to call the polic e. 
Bernard Ferrion:   First, I need to know my options. 
Alan Shore:   Besides Brazil? 
Bernard Ferrion:   Well, sometimes there’s circumstances that excuse  or . . . or justify.  I really need to know 
what’s available to me. 
Alan Shore:   Could you first tell me how she came to be lying dead on the floor? 
Bernard Ferrion:   I hit her on the head with a skillet. 
Alan Shore:   Ah. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Cast iron.  But it wasn’t premeditated or planned .  It was just . . . 
Alan Shore:   One of those things. 
Bernard Ferrion:   She was berating me—like she does all the time.  How I don’t make enough money.  How I’m 
weak.  All the time, the same litany of how I am a failure.  It makes me so enraged. 
Alan Shore:   Sounds like an accidental skillet-bopping so far.  
Bernard Ferrion:   She kept on and on, and I kept squeezing it tight er and tighter without even realizing it, and 
then I swung.  But I swear, Mr. Shore, I never deci ded to.  Suddenly, my arm was in motion! Bam! I hit  her, and 
she went down.  What do I do? 
Alan Shore:   I certainly can’t advise you to conceal evidence in any way.  But I’m afraid you’re going to have to  
call the police, Mr. Ferrion.  And if you don’t, I’ ll have to. 
Bernard Ferrion:   But you’re my lawyer. 
Alan Shore:   I understand, but . . . 
Bernard Ferrion:   What am I going to tell them? 
Della Ferrion moans, and stirs.   
Bernard Ferrion:   gasps  Oh. 
Alan Shore and Bernard Ferrion both take a step bac k from the body. 
Alan Shore:   I thought you said she was dead. 
Bernard Ferrion:   She is.  I checked her pulse. 
Alan Shore:   gingerly stepping forward   Sometimes, the air remaining inside the body esca pes, causing . . .  
Throws up his hands, then checks a pulse at her wri st.  He kneels, puts his head down near her mouth 
to feel if she is breathing.  You need not call the police, Mr. Ferrion.  Call fo r an ambulance.  Mother is still 
alive.  Would you like to hit her again?  
 
Lori Colson’s Office 
John Zenawi:   Did I witness any of it? 
Lori Colson:   Mr. Zenawi, before I can figure out if there’s a claim I first need to satisfy standing.  It would 
certainly help if we could make out a case for you specifically.  Legally, we have a term called “zone  of danger.” 
Basically, if you are in harm’s way yourself.  That ’s why I ask if you’ve ever witnessed any of it. 
John Zenawi:   I heard it once. 
Lori Colson:   You heard it? 
John Zenawi:   This past summer.  I was with relatives.  We were  celebrating one of my uncle’s birthdays.  The 
army showed up, and . . . um . . . they, uh, they a ccosted us.  Turns away 
Lori Colson:   Accosted you by . . . ? 
John Zenawi:   They told us we were slaves, that we had no right  to be in the country, that . . . um . . . we were 
occupying grazing land for their cattle.  My uncle protested.  They took him behind a barn structure  pause   
and set him on fire.  We all heard the screams.  Th en they raped one of my cousins.  turns back to face Lori 
Colson   Does that set out a case for me, specifically? To  listen to your, uh, uncle being burned to death? Y our 
cousin being raped? 
 
The Ferrion Home 
Bernard Ferrion:   It’s not that I am not relieved.  I am.  I certai nly do love her.  But what if she tells? 
Alan Shore:   Perhaps you should’ve used a bigger frying pan. 
Officer Coulier:   Mr. Ferrion, did you see what happened? 
Bernard Ferrion:   No.  Um, she was on a stool putting some things a way.  I went upstairs to have a bath.  I 
heard a crash.  I came running back, and she is on the floor unconscious.  5 Officer Coulier:   And you are . . . ? 
Bernard Ferrion:   This is Alan Shore.  He’s a friend of the family.  
Alan Shore:   Bernie, you surprise me. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Is she going to be okay? 
Paramedic:   We don’t know, sir. 
 
Paul Lewiston’s Office 
Lori Colson:   entering   I have a crazy idea. 
Paul Lewiston:   Already? 
Lori Colson:   Mm, hmm.  In tort law, you see a guy lying on the  side of the street, you have no obligation to pull  
over and help.  But if you do pull over, you incur a duty to complete that rescue, the theory being ot her would-
be rescuers pass by thinking help is already on the  scene. 
Paul Lewiston:   And? 
Lori Colson:   The United States has declared a war on terrorism .  We’ve talked the talk when it comes to 
Sudan.  We’ve even given financial aid.  Our theory  of law would be analogous—other countries have sta yed 
out, thinking America is stepping in when we’re not . 
Paul Lewiston:   sighs   It’s not a winner. 
Lori Colson:   But perhaps colorable enough to sue and make nois e. 
Paul Lewiston:   nods   Go draft the complaint. 
Lori Colson:   And? 
Paul Lewiston:   Thank you.  
Lori Colson walks out; Paul Lewiston shakes his hea d and returns to his law book. 
 
The Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Shirley Schmidt:   Lori Colson.  You slut. 
Lori Colson:   laughs as they hug   How are you, Shirley? 
Shirley Schmidt:   Old.  Rich.  looks at  Lori  You look great. 
Lori Colson:   Thanks 
Shirley Schmidt:   So, who are we sleeping with? 
Lori Colson:   Ah, usual suspects.  You back for good? 
Shirley Schmidt:   Just for bad.  Want to grab a beer later and do a  little debriefing? 
Lori Colson:   Love it.  You look awesome, by the way. 
Shirley Schmidt:   I know. 
 
The Ferrion Home 
Alan Shore:   I certainly don’t mind him talking to you.  Look,  he already has.  But if I let him take a polygraph —
come on—I could be sued for malpractice. 
Detective Willett:   How is it exactly you came to be here, Mr. Shore?  
Alan Shore:   I drove.  Detective Willett  looks at him as if to say, “Stop joking around.”  Bernie’s a friend.  
I’m here as his friend.  And since I am a lawyer—Lo ok.  Come on! There’s no sign of a struggle.  She s lipped 
and fell and hit her head on either the table, or c ounter, or stool, floor.  Your experts’ll figure it  out.  He’d like to 
go to the hospital to be with his mother.  Can I te ll him he can do that? 
Detective Willett:   Tell him not to leave the jurisdiction. 
Police Dispatcher (background):   Delta 114, domestic disturbance. 
Alan Shore walks over to Bernard Ferrion, who is si tting in a chair by the window across the room.  
Alan sits in a chair facing Bernard. 
Bernard Ferrion:   I heard some of that.  Do they suspect me? 
Alan Shore:   It’s crossed their minds. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Well, you should know that if you’re going to pas s yourself off as my friend . . . 
Alan Shore:   You did that, Bernie. 
Bernard Ferrion:   You should know that my friends call me Bernard. 
Alan Shore:   Ah.  So I guess that would make me your special f riend.  Tell me, Bernie, what exactly became of 
the skillet? 
 
The Hallway at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Paul Lewiston:   You weren’t expecting them to throw a parade for you, were you?  6 Shirley Schmidt:   No.  But if I get too much resistance, I assume I ’m permitted to bring my big broom out of the 
closet. 
Alan Shore:   Is that how you get around? On your big broom? He’s searching through his briefcase  
Paul Lewiston:   Shirley, this is Alan Shore. 
Shirley Schmidt:   We’ve met. 
Alan Shore:   Yes.  Shirley was in the men’s room earlier. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Inspecting his fixtures.  I’m a micromanager. 
Alan Shore smiles big at that double entendre. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Mr. Shore? 
Alan Shore:   his smile disappearing as he turns around to find B ernard Ferrion following him   I thought 
you were going to the hospital. 
Bernard Ferrion:   I did.  We have a little problem. 
Alan Shore:   turns back to Shirley Schmidt and Paul   Excuse me.  I have a client.  Maybe we can catch up 
later, Shirley. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Good.  You could tell me about your products. 
Alan Shore smiles, nodding, and escorts Bernard Fer rion to his office. 
Paul Lewiston:   An excellent lawyer.  
Shirley Schmidt:   If I determine he should go? 
Paul Lewiston:   He goes. 
 
Alan Shore’s Office 
Bernard Ferrion:   She’s vegetative.  The doctors think it’s 50-50 i f she’ll come out of it.  In the meantime, and, 
uh, I say this with a heavy heart . . . 
Alan Shore:   Of course. 
Bernard Ferrion:   My mother used to be a Christian Scientist, as di d I.  She hasn’t been one for years.  But I . . . 
I let it slip out to the doctors that she recently rededicated herself to the faith.  And they made in quiries as to 
her position on medical treatment.  I really don’t think she would want to be on a respirator, as much  as it pains 
me to admit. 
Alan Shore:   You let it slip out that your mother is a born-ag ain Christian Scientist? May I ask, did your mother  
rededicate herself to Christian Science before or a fter you hit her on the head with the skillet? 
Bernard Ferrion:   I don’t appreciate that question. 
Alan Shore:   What are you asking me for, Bernie? 
Bernard Ferrion:   Again, as much as it pains me, I’d like you to sa feguard her religious freedom. 
 
The Hallway at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Lori Colson:   We filed last night.  U.S. Attorney’s office didn ’t waste any time.  They brought a 12-B-6. 
Paul Lewiston:   Sovereign immunity. 
Lori Colson:   This may be our one day in court. 
Paul Lewiston:   And, therefore, our one day to make noise. 
Lori Colson:   We’ve put out a release.  There should be media i n the room.  Can you join for the motion? I’d 
like to make a big showing. 
Paul Lewiston:   Should we get Denny? 
Lori Colson:   Uh, maybe not that big. 
Paul Lewiston:   It’ll help to have him at the table.  Shirley, I want you to think back and tell me—who is the best 
attorney you have ever seen in court? 
Shirley Schmidt:   Me. 
Paul Lewiston:   We need to survive a 12-B-6 on a pretty untenable  claim.  How would you feel about joining us 
for oral arguments? 
Shirley Schmidt:   What’s the claim? 
Paul Lewiston:   We’re suing the United States government for the genocide that’s taking place in Sudan. 
Shirley Schmidt:   What’s so untenable about that? 
Paul Lewiston:   This is why I love her.  Sees Alan Shore coming out of his office   Alan, we’re making a show 
of force in a high profile matter.  Could we troubl e you to join us for a motion this morning? 
Alan Shore:   I’d love to.  But, see, I have a client who hit h is mother on the head with a skillet.  We’re trying  to 
take her off life support, and the police have brou ght some nuisance action to try to keep her breathi ng,  7 buggers that they are.  turns to Shirley Schmidt   By the way, my fixtures remain available for furt her 
inspection.  turns to Paul Lewiston   Paul?  walks away  
Lori Colson:   smiling   He’s funny. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Denny Crane is sharpening pencils with an automatic  sharpener and much gusto 
Paul Lewiston:   Denny, may we borrow your prowess for a motion th is morning? 
Denny Crane:   Why did you bring Shirley Schmidt back here? 
Paul Lewiston:   Because we need her. 
Denny Crane:   Well, then go borrow her prowess.  sharpening again   It’s a betrayal.  Calling her back here 
says I’m not enough.  Can you get that? 
Paul Lewiston:   I can. 
Denny Crane:   Then why did you do it? 
Paul Lewiston:   You’re not enough. 
Denny Crane:   I still matter, my friend. 
Paul Lewiston:   Yes, you do, which is why I asked you to be prese nt for this motion. 
Denny Crane:   There’s another problem you don’t even know about . 
Paul Lewiston:   Which is? 
Denny Crane:   That woman.  She’s hot for me. 
Paul Lewiston rolls his eyes and leaves the office.  
 
Courtroom 
D.A. Valerie Murrow:   Certainly there’s a state interest in preserving life, your Honor . . . 
Alan Shore:   If a patient wishes to refuse medical treatment b ased on religious practices . . . 
D.A. Valerie Murrow:   First of all, we don’t even know that. 
Alan Shore:   Objection, your Honor.  You can’t preface your se cond point with “first of all.” 
D.A. Valerie Murrow:   This woman has forsaken Christian Science.  We ha ve no assurance . . . 
Alan Shore:   According to her son, she’s recommitted herself .  . . 
D.A. Valerie Murrow:   A son who might be a suspect if we determine ther e was foul play.  We’re dealing with a 
potential homicide. 
Alan Shore:   Well, if the goal is to charge homicide, it makes  little sense to keep the victim alive.  I could be  
wrong. 
D.A. Valerie Murrow:   I object to this smugness, your Honor.  A human l ife is at stake here. 
Alan Shore:   The family of Della Ferrion is here today, saying  it is her wish not to be kept alive on a respirato r. 
D.A. Valerie Murrow:   And it is simply way too early to make that call.   She could recover.  The suggestion 
that— 
Alan Shore:   The issue isn’t recovery.  It’s religious freedom , which is sacred in this country—unless, of course , 
you’re Muslim. 
Judge Blake Winters:  I’m gonna have to cut you both off.  We’ve just rec eived word from the hospital.  Mrs. 
Ferrion has evidently regained consciousness. 
Alan Shore:   Excellent. 
 
U.S. Court:  Hallway 
Reporter:   There they are 
A barrage of questions from a large group of report ers 
Reporter:   Could you answer a question, sir? 
Lori Colson, Paul Lewiston, Shirley Schmidt, Denny Crane, Brad Chase, Sally Heep and John Zenawi 
are exiting the elevator 
Paul Lewiston:   No comment.  We have no comment at this time.  We ’ll be making a comment after the motion. 
Denny Crane:   I eat Cocoa Puffs.  Denny Crane.  Cuckoo for Coco a Puffs.  Denny Crane. 
U.S. Attorney Joyner:  They’re seeking damages for acts committed by a for eign government against a foreign 
citizenry.  There’s no jurisdiction here; no standi ng.  And even if there were, any such lawsuit would  be barred 
by sovereign immunity, which prohibits the U.S. gov ernment or its officials from being sued for foreig n policy 
decisions. 
Judge Linda O’Keefe:   Miss Colson, I have to agree.  How do I not toss this on its face?  8 Lori Colson:   First, the United States government, through Cong ress, ratified the U.N. Convention against 
genocide.  The government’s current failure to stop  the genocide in Sudan violates both U.S. law and p olicy. 
U.S. Attorney Joyner:  We have not failed.  We have expended . . . 
Lori Colson:   You’re arguing the merits, which I’m happy to do,  but it means a trial.  If a government begins a 
rescue operation which, in effect, stops other coun tries from pursuing that rescue, that government ca n be held 
liable for failing to complete that rescue. 
U.S. Attorney Joyner:  Never.  Never has the United States government atte mpted any rescue mission in 
Sudan. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Your Honor, may I? 
Judge Linda O’Keefe nods 
Shirley Schmidt:   We know this lawsuit is a bit of a stretch. 
Judge Linda O’Keefe:   Hmm.  You understate it. 
Shirley Schmidt:   But the truth is, our country puts it out there.  “We will root out terrorism wherever it thrives.” 
We elect our presidents on that theme.  We go to wa r over it.  Wherever oppression abounds, we get inv olved.  
It’s almost become a motto.  No one here denies an ethnic genocide is taking place in Sudan.  Arab mil itia are 
wiping out the black population of Darfur.  Am I bo ring you? 
Judge Linda O’Keefe:   Miss Schmidt.  The court recognizes the atrocity.   Why should the United States be held 
liable? 
Shirley Schmidt:   Well, if we’re not going to do anything about it,  maybe we should just say so.  Lord knows, 
the world will understand.  We’ve certainly got our  hands full.  But when our leaders do their biparti san puffing, 
saying the genocide must end, other countries think  we’re going to do something.  They then stay out o f it, and, 
in the end, nothing gets done, while millions of pe ople are being persecuted.  Maybe as a compromise, we 
could just get the U.S. government to declare for t he record, “Hey, not our problem.” That way, the wo rld would 
be on notice—somebody else should play hero.  I cou ld try to sell that to my client. 
Judge Linda O’Keefe:   Mr. Joyner? 
U.S. Attorney Joyner:  The United States’ response to an ethnic genocide i s certainly not going to be, “Hey, not 
our problem.” 
Shirley Schmidt:   See?  This is how other countries get confused. 
 
Hallway of U.S. Courthouse 
Shirley Schmidt:   surrounded by reporters asking questions   We’re satisfied the judge took it under 
advisement.  It at least demonstrates a recognition  on her part that we have a colorable cause of acti on. 
Denny Crane:   to Brad Chase   Did you understand a word that was said in there?  
Brad Chase:   Just go with it. 
Denny Crane:   Denny Crane.  Trix are for kids.  Glad to meet yo u. 
Tara Wilson:   Did he just say, “Trix are for kids”? 
Sally Heep:   He did. 
 
Della Ferrion’s Hospital Room 
Dr. Kohler:   She’s very weak, of course, and quite sedated. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Can I talk to her? 
Dr. Kohler:   For a minute or two.  I’d like her to rest. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Mom? Mom? 
Della Ferrion awakens 
Bernard Ferrion:   It’s me.  Bernard. 
Della Ferrion:   Bernard. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Doctors say you’re gonna be just fine.  You just need to rest, Mother. 
Della Ferrion:   My Bernard.  He hit me on the head.  I think with  a skillet. 
Bernard Ferrion:   scoffs   Mom.  W—what are you talking about?  You fell. 
Della Ferrion:   You tried to kill me. 
Alan Shore:   She’s a Chatty Cathy! 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Shirley Schmidt:   If we’re going to work together, we should reach some kind of accord. 
Denny Crane:   I don’t want to be working together.  That’s the whole point I’m trying to make. 
Denny Crane:   Can you tell me why?  9 Denny Crane:   Well, first off, you’re a liberal. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Yes.  Besides that. 
Denny Crane:   I figured out what you were doing in court today.   You were Bush-bashing. 
Shirley Schmidt:   I assure you, I wasn’t. 
Denny Crane:   You made war comments.  When a liberal makes comm ents about the war, they’re Bush-
bashing.  It’s un-American. 
Shirley Schmidt:   To criticize a President? 
Denny Crane:   While he’s in office, yes. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Denny, you and I go way back.  I know you.  Your aversion to my return has nothing to do 
with politics.  Can we talk about it? 
Denny Crane:   You left me, Shirley.  Women don’t leave Denny Cr ane.  And for a secretary! 
Shirley Schmidt:   It was the Secretary of Defense. 
Denny Crane:   Doesn’t matter.  I have an image.  One could even  say I’m all image. 
Shirley Schmidt:   One could.  pause as much is left unsaid   Imagine the fun working together again. 
Denny Crane:   It won’t be fun.  There’s only room for one at th e mountaintop.  stands up and walks to the 
door   It’s my mountain.  walks out of his own office, as Lori enters, lookin g for Shirley  
Lori Colson:   Denny.  The judge just called us back. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Already? 
Lori Colson:   Is there any way that could be a good sign? I was  hoping to at least survive ‘til the six o’clock 
news. 
 
A Hallway in the Hospital 
Bernard Ferrion:   He called the police? 
Alan Shore:   I’m afraid so. 
Bernard Ferrion:   What do I do? What do I do? 
Alan Shore:   Well, Brazil comes back to mind.  Bernie, listen to me.  If you were overcome, like you say, when 
this happened . . . 
Bernard Ferrion:   I was.  I—I—I obviously had problems with her, Mr . Shore, but I truly never intended to kill 
her.  I did not consciously  stops talking when someone walks past them  
Alan Shore:   If we could show heat of passion . . . 
Bernard Ferrion:   I’ve never broken the law in my life.  She just g ot me so enraged! God, my life is over. 
Dr. Kohler:   Mr. Ferrion? 
Bernard Ferrion:   What? 
Dr. Kohler:   I, um, I’m very sorry to tell you—your mother has  passed away. 
Bernard Ferrion:   I beg your pardon? 
Dr. Kohler:   She went back to sleep and she just quietly passe d. 
 
U.S. Courtroom 
Judge Linda O’Keefe:   To be honest, I might have a hard time finding Su dan on a map.  I certainly know 
they’ve got big problems.  Innocent people murdered  every day, systemic rape, many of them children.  It’s the 
worst humanitarian crisis in the world. 
Shirley Schmidt:   Please don’t say “but.” 
Judge Linda O’Keefe:   But, why does every crisis automatically fall to the United States to solve? We’ve got 
Iraq, Iran, North Korea—and these are people who mi ght murder us.  We’re supposed to tend to a bunch o f 
Africans killing each other? Why? Because we’re Ame ricans? The answer is . . . yes.  Because we’re 
Americans.  Because we’re a nation—perhaps the  nation—that’s supposed to give a damn.  What’s goi ng on is 
an organized extermination of an entire race of peo ple.  We’re the country that’s supposed to give a d amn.  
Miss Schmidt, Miss Colson, your claim here most lik ely won’t survive summary judgment.  And maybe the 
American people don’t care about what’s happening o ver there, but for today, here, now—at least one fe deral 
court judge does.  Defendant’s motion to dismiss—de nied.  bangs gavel 
Tara Wilson, Brad Chase and Sally Heep look at each  other, happy.  John Zenawi looks relieved and 
surprised. 
Paul Lewiston:   I can’t believe it. 
Lori Colson:   Neither can I. 
 
  10  Hospital Room 
Bernard Ferrion:   I—I thought perhaps I’d be relieved if she died.  But the truth is, um, she’s all I really had.  
sniffles   I lived with her.  I can’t believe she’s gone. 
Alan Shore:   She looks at peace.  Though she did on the kitche n floor as well. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Mr. Shore, can you make room for the possibility that I both killed my mother and I’m 
devastated at losing her? 
Alan Shore:   I can. 
Bernard Ferrion:   I’m so sorry.  Mother, I’m so sorry. 
Officer James:   Bernard Ferrion? 
Alan Shore:   That’s me.   
Officer James looks at him in disbelief. 
Alan Shore:   Kidding. 
Bernard Ferrion:   I’m Bernard Ferrion. 
Officer James:   You’re under arrest for the murder of Della Ferri on. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Oh. 
Officer James:   Please place your hands behind your back 
Bernard Ferrion:   Yes, sir. 
Officer James:   You have the right to remain silent.  Anything yo u say can and will be used against you in a 
court of law.   
Bernard Ferrion:   Uh, huh. 
Officer James:   You have the right to hire an attorney and have h im present before any questioning.  If you 
cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed fo r you by the courts.  You can also waive your right  to silence 
and make any statement you wish.  Do you understand  these rights? 
 
Courtroom 
Bailiff:   32611:  Commonwealth versus Ferrion.  Charge of m urder in the first. 
Alan Shore:   Alan Shore appearing for the defendant.  We’ll wa ive reading.  I’d ask that my client be released 
on his own recognizance. 
D.A. Bret Haber:   Opposed.  The man is charged with homicide.  Bail  would certainly . . . 
Alan Shore:   He has no record, your Honor. 
D.A. Bret Haber:   He would be a threat to society. 
Alan Shore:   Nonsense.  He only kills mothers—allegedly—and he ’s fresh out of them. 
Judge James Billmeyer:   Bail is set at one million dollars.  Let’s confer ence tomorrow at 9 am.  We’ll set up a 
trial schedule. 
Alan Shore:   Wait one second, your Honor.  It seems there’s be en a terrible mistake.  My client never should 
have been arrested. 
Judge James Billmeyer:   Because . . . ? 
Alan Shore:   There’s no evidence.  According to the police rep ort, there’s been no determination of cause of 
death, no witnesses . . . 
D.A. Bret Haber:   The victim identified the defendant as the killer . 
Alan Shore:   That would be hearsay. 
D.A. Bret Haber:   It was a dying declaration, and therefore, an exc eption to the hearsay rule. 
Alan Shore:   For the dying declaration exception to apply, the  declarant must know he or she is about to die 
when making the statement.  Mrs. Ferrion was told b y the doctor she was going to survive.  She never t hought 
for a second she was going to die. 
D.A. Bret Haber:   Even so, your Honor, for her to incriminate her o wn son would be a declaration against her 
interest, which would also qualify as an exception to the hearsay rule. 
Alan Shore:   I refer your Honor to Officer Coulier’s interview s with the neighbors noted at the bottom of the 
page.  Mr. Ferrion was reportedly verbally abused b y his mother.  She would blame him for anything tha t went 
wrong in her life.  Well, here again, she was blami ng him for the bump on her head.  It was not a decl aration 
against her interest, but just more of the same.  T he court cannot be satisfied as to its reliability.   The hearsay 
rule very much applies. 
Judge James Billmeyer:   Is this all you’ve got—the statement of the victi m? 
D.A. Bret Haber:   ruffling through his papers   We’ll get more. 
Judge James Billmeyer:   Well, when you do, you can refile.  Right now, yo u’ve got nothing.  Victim’s statement 
is inadmissible.  The charges against Mr. Ferrion a re dismissed without prejudice.  11  The Hallway Outside 
Alan Shore opens the door for Bernard Ferrion. 
Bernard Ferrion:   I can’t believe it.  I just—I can’t believe it. 
Alan Shore:   It’s been an exciting week. 
Bernard Ferrion:   You think they’ll be back for me? 
Alan Shore:   Frankly, Bernie, I don’t think they’ll get the ev idence, which I can see brings you right back to . . . 
Bernard Ferrion:   I can’t believe it. 
Alan Shore:   May I say something else?  
Bernard Ferrion looks interested. 
Alan Shore:   I see in you, Bernie, an innately kind person.  A  man whose docile, gentle nature was worn down 
by a relentlessly mean, dark-hearted woman.  I coul d be wrong, but . . . I’m hoping it’s the kind gent le person 
who goes on from here, not the one who swung that s killet. 
Bernard Ferrion:   Oh, um, I promise you with all my heart.  You don ’t have to worry about that. 
Alan Shore:   Bernie, through your grief, which I know is very real, try to see this as an opportunity.  For once,  
finally, you get to live your life free of Mother. 
 
Shirley Schmidt’s Office: 
Newscaster:   Now to international news.  According to the Unit ed Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, one 
in three people in Darfur now requires lifesaving a ssistance due to either violence or malnutrition.  Efforts to 
negotiate a peaceful solution to the underlying [s? ] war in that country have now proven too late. 
Lori Colson:   Whatcha doing? 
Shirley Schmidt:   Watching the news.  CBS just declared Bush the wi nner. 
Lori Colson:   Hmm.  offering Shirley a beer   Cheers? 
Shirley Schmidt:   Cheers. 
Lori Colson:   I see our little case is getting play.  You think  it could actually make a difference? 
Shirley Schmidt:   smiles   I remember reading when the press went to Bosnia people rejoiced at the sight of 
American media.  They figured if word got out, some thing would be done.  Murders and rapes would stop.   
They waited, and they waited, and nobody came.   
Lori Colson:   Maybe we need Sudan to attack us.  We might fall short as humanitarians, but we’re pretty good 
avengers. 
Shirley Schmidt:   If you don’t mind, I’ll cling to the idea we’re s till pretty decent humanitarians. 
Lori Colson:   What’s that? 
Shirley Schmidt:   I don’t know.  I thought it was from you.  I was waiting to open it. Gets up and walks to her 
desk. 
Lori Colson:   Mm, mm.  It’s not from me. 
Shirley Schmidt:   opening a green gift box with a white bow, to find a rearview car mirror   “Objects in 
mirror are bigger than they appear.” 
Lori Colson:   He’s funny. 
Shirley Schmidt:   He’s also trouble, isn’t he? 
Lori Colson nods slightly. 
 
Balcony Scene 
Denny Crane:   She’s big trouble. 
Alan Shore:   Did she break your heart? 
Denny Crane:   hunched forward in his chair   She might’ve.  So what? I’ve had my heart broken lots of times.  
It stings for a minute. 
Alan Shore:   I would think it would be fun to have her back.  I don’t know about you, but when I travel, going to  
new places isn’t always as interesting as revisitin g some of the old ones.  What is it that has you so  balled up? 
Denny Crane:   She isn’t slipping, that’s what. 
Alan Shore:   You’re worried about her seeing you age? 
Denny Crane:   You might not believe this, but I was once a very  remarkable man. 
Alan Shore:   Denny.  Denny, you’re a remarkable man. 
Denny Crane:   Between you and me, that woman is too much for me . 
Alan Shore:   leaning forward so as to be level with Denny Crane   Between you and me, we’ll take her. 
Denny Crane:   I’d like that.  Leaning back in his chair   I’d like that. 
Alan Shore leans back also. 