 1 Boston Legal  
Head Cases 
Season 1, Episode 1 
Written by Scott Kaufer & Jeff Rake, and David E. K elley 
© 2004 David E. Kelley Productions.  All Rights Res erved 
Airdate:  October 3, 2004 
Transcribed by Sheri for boston-legal.org [version updated June 17, 2006] 
 
Conference Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore:  sitting in the chair to Tara Wilson’s left, slidi ng some papers from that position on the table so 
they are in front of the chair to her right.   Tara.  Sigh  
Brad Chase:   Hey, I’m Brad Chase from D.C. 
Alan Shore:  Alan Shore. 
Brad Chase:   Pleasure.  I, ah, think that’s my seat. 
Alan Shore:  Yes.  I did see someone’s things here.  I moved the m to a less desirable location.  Opens his 
newspaper to read.   I’m sorry; we’re not territorial about that sort of thing around here, are we? 
Brad Chase walks over to the other chair to sit dow n. 
Denny Crane:   Denny Crane.  Shakes hands with  
Peter Stone:   Yes, Denny, I know.   
Denny Crane:   Ahh . . . 
Peter Stone:   I run the New York office. 
Denny Crane:   Oh . . . 
Peter Stone:   Peter Stone? 
Denny Crane:   Denny Crane. 
Chicago partner:   I know.  I’m . . . um . . . with Chicago. 
Denny Crane:   My kind of town.  Always had the best sex of my l ife in Chicago.  What about you? 
Well, um . . . 
Denny Crane:   Greetings, Tokyo, London. 
Nigel:  Good morning. 
Tokyo partner:   Morning, Denny. 
Denny Crane:   Shaking hands .  Brad Chase.  There you are, soldier.  
Brad Chase:   Hey. 
Denny Crane:   Oh, everybody remembers Brad Chase, I’m sure.  He ll, if I do—Good to see you, man.  All right, 
everybody—lock and load.  Item 1:  Forget Item 1. 
Nigel:  Well, actually, Denny, item 1 is a rather urgent matter that we must discuss. 
Denny Crane:   Why don’t you brief us? 
Nigel:  Gladly.  If we . . . Denny Crane hits the mute button on his remote.  
Denny Crane:   Item 2:  Beckerman discovery? What the hell is th at? 
Jerry Austin:   Uh, well, opposing counsel was granted their moti on to compel, which means we are now required to 
turn over all correspondence and scientific studies . 
Denny Crane:   Hmm, what about the ones we burned before the jud ge’s orders? 
Sam Halpern:   We didn’t burn any documents. 
Denny Crane:   Well, sure we did.  Do it today.  All right, Nige l, keep going, we’re listening.  Clicks remote  
Nigel:  Uh, if we don’t . . . 
Denny Crane:   hitting the mute button again   Item 3. 
Sam Halpern:   Damn it, Denny.  This is not a way to conduct a s taff meeting.  Where the hell is Edwin? 
Edwin Poole:   Sorry I’m late, good people.  He walks around the table to reveal—to everyone—he is wearing 
no pants. 
Alan Shore:  Is it Casual Monday? 
Denny Crane:   Edwin, everything all right? 
Edwin Poole:   Hunky dory. 
Quick cut to  
 
The Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Edwin Poole is strapped onto a gurney in preparatio n for a ride in an ambulance. 
Ambulance attendant:   It’s all going to be fine, Mr. Poole.  2 Sam Halpern:   Unbelievable. 
Jerry Austin:   Not really.  Always figured him for a loon. 
Edwin Poole:   Tara.  Where’s Tara.  I need Tara! 
Tara Wilson:   I’m right here, Edwin. 
Edwin Poole:   Oh, thank you.  You have to contact Bill.   
Tara Wilson:   I . . . I will, Edwin.  I promise. 
Edwin Poole:   Apologize for my delay.  Then call my wife—tell h er I’ve had a small breakdown.  Not to worry. 
Tara Wilson:   Of course. 
Edwin Poole:   Oh, oh, my goodness.  The Brant appeal.  I have t he Brant appeal! 
Denny Crane:   Relax, Edwin, relax. 
Edwin Poole:   Denny, guess what? I’m due in court with Tara. 
Denny Crane:   We’re on it.  Don’t you worry.  You just get bett er.   
Edwin Poole:   Okay. 
Denny Crane:   to Tara   Demagnetize his parking pass. 
Tara Wilson:   I beg your pardon? 
Denny Crane:   I know when a man has gone.  Do you think you can  handle this case? Without a co-pilot? 
Tara Wilson:   Well, I . . .N . . . uh, n . . . 
Denny Crane:   Who’s the judge? 
Tara Wilson:   Resnick. 
Denny Crane:   He’s s schmuck.  Alan! Back Tara up.  She’s befor e schmuck Resnick.  See if you can get a damn 
continuance. 
 
Further up the Hallway 
Ambulance attendant:   Coming through, please. 
Paul Lewiston:   Brad, you got a few minutes? 
Brad Chase:   Actually, no, I’ve got an early shuttle. 
Paul Lewiston:   Get a later one.  I need some face time. 
Brad Chase:   What’s up? 
Paul Lewiston:   Edwin Poole was the only one here able to rein in  Denny Crane.  Without him . . . 
Brad Chase:   If you are about to go where I think you’re going  . . . 
Paul Lewiston:   We need you back in Boston more than in D.C., Bra d.  Stops Lori Colson, who is walking by   
Lori, Ernie Dell just came in.  He’s upset about so mething.  I sent him to your office. 
Lori Colson:  My office? 
Paul Lewiston:   Yeah.  The alternative would be Denny’s office, a nd nobody here wants that. 
Beah Toomy:   Excuse me.  I need a lawyer.  This is my daughter .  She tried out for the national tour of Annie , and 
she was the best one.  And she was passed over beca use she was black.  It’s discrimination.  It’s bigo try.  It’s 
prejudice, and we want justice. 
 
[cut to credits] 
 
Alan Shore’s Office 
Sally Heep:  Please tell me that you’ve never seen anything li ke that before. 
Alan Shore:  Baring your ass to 24 attorneys, including 2 overse as—that is an unprecedented triumph.  I’m just 
distraught I didn’t think of it myself. 
Sally Heep:  You know what I like about you? 
Alan Shore:  No, I do not. 
Brad Chase:   Excuse me.  Sorry to interrupt.  Brad Chase.  Loo k, I’ve been asked to stay, which I’m considering.   
But I’m concerned that you and I may have gotten of f on the wrong foot.  I like to be straight up with  people, and If 
there’s and issue or conflict, let’s address it hea d on, if you don’t mind. 
Alan Shore:  I have trouble talking that fast.  I don’t  believe in being straight up, but I’m a big fan of  your Aqua Velva 
commercials. 
Brad Chase:   There’s a potential client in the conference room .  I’d like you to meet with her.  Oh, forgot to 
mention—I outrank you. 
Alan Shore:  Do you? And I’m such a slut for authority. 
Sally Heep:  All right.  You think the two little boys could g et off the playground now? 
  3 Conference Room of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Beah Toomy:   “Kiss Today.” 
Sarah Toomy:   I don’t wanna sing. 
Beah Toomy:   You need to practice.  You want to make Julliard?  “Kiss Today.” 
Sarah Toomy:   blows her breath out   “Kiss today goodbye . . .” 
Alan Shore:  Oh, my. 
Beah Toomy:   Never mind, “Oh, my.” She sings like a sparrow.  Here, look.  I’ve got these producer notes, which I  
was able to get a hold of because of my own persona l ingenuity.  Says she has the most talent.  You ca n read it for 
yourself. 
Alan Shore:  I’m afraid there’s been a terrible mistake.  I don’ t do musical comedy. 
Beah Toomy:   Annie’s a drama.  It’s full of suspense on whether a litt le girl gets to live with the rich guy.  It’s 
dramatic. 
Alan Shore’s facial expression says it all, and end s in a big smile. 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Receptionist hands a messenger an envelope as a ver y upset Dr. Sharon Brant enters. 
Receptionist:   May I help you? 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   Yes, I need to speak to Edwin Poole immediately. 
Receptionist:   I’m afraid Mr. Poole is has stepped out . . . 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   You don’t understand.  This is an urgent matter.  Where the hell is Edwin Poole? 
Sally Heep:  Hi, is there anything I can do to help? 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   Yes.  My ex-husband is trying to take my children  from me. 
Sally Heep:  Okay. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   And Edwin Poole—he missed my hearing today.  And I’ve been calling his cell phone, and—I 
mean, what the hell is going on around here?! 
Brad Chase:   Excuse me.  I’m Brad Chase.  We’re going to take care of this for you.  Now why don’t you just take a 
seat in the conference room.  I’ll get you a glass of water. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   All right.  Thank you. 
Sally Heep:  Hey. 
Brad Chase:   Yeah. 
Sally Heep:  I was handling it. 
Brad Chase:   I just thought I’d help out. 
Sally Heep:  That’s very nice.  But, again, I was handling it.  
Brad Chase:   So, why does it bother you that I’m trying to hel p? 
Sally Heep:  Well, maybe because you feel I can’t deal with a client on my own. 
Brad Chase:   I don’t feel that way at all. 
Sally Heep:  Well, then I guess I really have no idea what you  feel. 
Brad Chase:   I guess not. 
Sally Heep:  And that’s supposed to be my fault? 
Alan Shore:  Wait a minute.  You two have had sex! 
Brad Chase:   I’m sorry.  We’re not territorial about that sort  of thing around here, are we? 
 
Lori Colson’s Office 
Lori Colson:  If you’re not going to tell me— 
Ernie Dell:  I would prefer to tell Denny.  Where the hell is he? 
Lori Colson:  Ernie, you and I have done business for a long ti me.  And we’ve always been able to talk to each 
other.  If I’m to help you here— 
Ernie Dell:  My wife is cheating on me.  Uh, and . . . she inf ormed me that she has been cheating on me for our 
entire marriage.  It’s been a fraud from Day 1. 
Lori Colson:  Okay.  First, you’ve only been married since Augu st.  Second, you’ve had five other marriages 
dissolve each— 
Ernie Dell:  But this—this was the real thing. 
Lori Colson:  What’s the goal? To get her back? 
Ernie Dell:  Uh, I’d like to put a private investigator on her .  Get some proof. 
Lori Colson:  If she’s admitted . . . 
Ernie Dell:  The goal being to get some compromising pictures to use as leverage.  4 Lori Colson:  In hopes of . . . 
Ernie Dell:  sighs   Negotiating an annulment. 
 
Alan Shore’s Office 
Beah Toomy:   I know it sounds crazy.  And I know I’m one of th ose obnoxious stage mothers.  I get that.  But Sara h 
worked hard.  I’ve tried to teach her what you earn , people can’t take that away from you.  She’s earn ed this, Mr. 
Shore. 
Alan Shore:  I have no doubt.  But you realize, producers do hav e discretion.  And the art of casting strikes me as  a 
very inexact science.  
Beah Toomy:   If they knew they were gonna go white, why did th ey let her try out at all? Why’d they let her get h er 
hopes up? I’ll tell you why.  So they can pass them selves off as equal opportunity employers.  So they  can claim to 
be about diversity.  They want it both ways, Mr. Sh ore.  And my daughter got hurt. 
Sarah Toomy and Alan Shore exchange smiles. 
 
Conference Room of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   That was our deal.  I would work two jobs, put hi m through business school, then he would put 
me through medical school.  A week after he graduat ed, he got a job running a mutual fund, and a week after that, 
he left me.  Our kids were four then.  Twins.  Simo n and Harry.  Pulling a picture out of her purse  They’re eight 
now.  Handing picture to Sally Heep 
Sally Heep:  taking the picture   Oh, they’re beautiful. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   Thanks.  In their peewee league uniforms.  You kn ow, he’s never seen one of their games. 
Sally Heep:  He pay your way through med school? 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   Take a wild guess.  I don’t care, though.  I’ve g raduated now.  Got a residency waiting for me in 
New York City.  But Matthew won’t let me take the b oys out of state.  Says he wants them close by—thes e boys he 
sees once a month.  It’s nothing but spite. 
Brad Chase:   Now, look, we’re going to reschedule a hearing.  I’m sure everything is going to work out fine.  You  
just have to be patient. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   If I’m not at Columbia Presbyterian 8:00 am Monda y morning, they will give my spot away.  That 
can’t happen.  I have worked to hard to build a lif e for these boys.   
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Denny Crane:   We can’t tail the wife. 
Lori Colson:  That’s what he wants, Denny. 
Denny Crane:   Can’t do it.  Not ethical.  She’s a client, too. 
Lori Colson:  What I would suggest is we send a letter of withd rawal to end-run the conflict.  Get an opinion lett er of 
outside counsel . . . 
Denny Crane:   I don’t want to tail the wife. 
Lori Colson:  Denny, I don’t need to tell you that Ernie Dell i s one of our biggest clients.  If he wants a privat e 
investigator, what’s the real harm? 
Denny Crane:   The harm would be to me. 
Lori Colson:  I’m sorry? 
Denny Crane:   I’m the one sleeping with his wife. 
 
The File Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Paul Lewiston:   Denny is having an affair with the woman? 
Lori Colson:  I’ve got a senior partner saying, “Don’t tail her .” I’ve got a client wanting snapshots.  What do I do, 
Paul? 
Paul Lewiston:   Convince Ernie that the private investigator idea  is a bad one. 
Lori Colson:  Oh, sure. 
Paul Lewiston:   You have enormous persuasive skills, Lori. 
Lori Colson:  You’re handling me. 
Paul Lewiston:   I am.  And I need you to handle Ernie.  I will handle Denny. 
 
The Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Tara Wilson is walking; Lori Colson catches up to h er. 
Lori Colson:  Tara?  5 Tara Wilson:   Hi. 
Lori Colson:  Don’t be offended by this.  I know you’re a great  lawyer with exceptional legal skills. 
Tara Wilson:   And? 
Lori Colson:  I need you to flirt with Ernie Dell. 
Tara Wilson:   Excuse me? 
Lori Colson:  The man is a profound skirt chaser. 
Tara Wilson:   What’s wrong with your skirt? 
Lori Colson:  sigh   Okay, look.  Men sometimes find me attractive.  F rom time to time, they’ll even hit on me.  It’s all  
deeply rewarding.  But you— 
Tara Wilson:   What me? 
Lori Colson:  You’re hot.  Yeah.  Kind of . . . nasty hot.  Men  would leave their wives for you, and I need to mak e 
Ernie forget about his wife so . . . 
Tara Wilson:   If you think that I . . . 
Lori Colson:  Don’t make me pull rank.  You can file your sexua l harassment claim tomorrow, but today—now—you 
need to meet with Ernie. 
 
Conference Room of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore:  It seems the client can’t pay, so the firm will hav e to eat the cost of prosecuting this matter.  I’m sure 
the partners won’t object, when they hear that it w as a case you assigned to me. 
Brad Chase:   I’ll tell you what.  I’ll pay the cost of prosecu ting the case. 
Alan Shore:  Mmm. 
Brad Chase:   Of course, if you were a betting man . . .  You w in, I pay.  You lose, you pay.  Bit of a gamble, I realize 
. . . 
Alan Shore:  I’ll pay double. 
 
Conference Room of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   You got another hearing? 
Brad Chase:   That’s the good news.  The not-so-good news is we  probably won’t win it. 
Sally Heep:  But, it at least gives us leverage to get your ex -husband in a room. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   Woo-woo.  What are you talking about? 
Brad Chase:   We want to take a shot at a settlement.  Now, if your ex cares anything about these kids, then . . .  
Dr. Sharon Brant:   He doesn’t.  This is all about getting me.  Have I not been clear about that? He doesn’t even 
know the kids. 
Brad Chase:   I’ve dealt with bad ex-husbands before. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   Mr. Chase, no offense, but you have never dealt w ith this one.  Trust me. 
 
Courtroom #1 
Atty. Smith:  This is Little Orphan Annie, for God’s sake! If s he doesn’t look the part . . . 
Alan Shore:  I didn’t realize we did racial profiling for our co mic strips. 
Atty. Smith:  These are private investors.  There is no state a ction involved. 
Alan Shore:  How would the story change if Annie were black? 
Atty. Smith:  Your Honor, are you serious? 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  Counsel, we are talking about adoption here.  Dadd y Warbucks isn’t the biological father.  
Exactly how would the story change? 
Atty. Smith:  Little Orphan Annie is an iconic character based . . . 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  I want to see her. 
Atty. Smith:  Excuse me? 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  The girl who got the role.  I want to compare. 
Atty. Smith:  Your Honor, is that really fair to the other litt le girl? 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  Well, counsel, if she can sing eight times a week in front of 3000-plus people a night, she can 
sing in front of me.  Get her in here. 
 
Lori Colson’s Office 
Ernie Dell:  I want the private investigator. 
Lori Colson:  sighs   The thing is, Ernie, the photographs will have no  legal relevance.  They can’t facilitate an 
annulment.  6 Ernie Dell:  I am the customer here, Lori. 
Lori Colson:  Customer isn’t always right. 
Lori Colson and Tara Wilson exchange conspiratorial  looks. 
Tara Wilson:   May I . . . make an observation?  I really don’t know you, Mr. Dell, but I suspect there’s a reason why 
all these younger women want to marry you. 
Ernie Dell:  It’s called money. 
Tara Wilson:   You’re wrong.  It’s called power.  And you derive  a lot of that power not just from being handsome a nd 
sexy, but from being dignified.  Hiring a private i nvestigator is beneath you.  There are many young, beautiful 
women out there, who would love to jump into your .  . . wife’s place.  I know this sounds crazy, but .  . . you might 
want to look at this as an opportunity. 
  
The Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
The camera follows an angry Paul Lewiston to an off ice door, which he opens, entering  
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Denny Crane:   Paul. 
Paul Lewiston:   You and I go back a long way, Denny.  Completely mindful of the fact that you helped build this 
place, the partners here will not allow you to dism antle it with your buffoonery. 
Denny Crane:   What did you say to me? 
Paul Lewiston:   I don’t think you want to hear me say it again.  To have an affair with the wife of one of our bigge st 
clients—it disrespects both Ernie Dell and this fir m. 
Denny Crane:   We have other clients. 
Paul Lewiston:   Not like Ernie.  But your point is well taken.  E verybody is fungible. 
Ernie Dell walks in as Paul Lewiston opens the door  to leave. 
Ernie Dell:  Lori Colson won’t tail my wife.  I want you to do  it. 
Paul Lewiston:   Ernie. 
Ernie Dell:  I’m not talking to you.  Get it done, Denny. 
Ernie Dell and then Paul Lewiston leave the room. 
 
The Buddha Bar 
Alan Shore:  Denny, I’m having a bit of an identity crisis.  I’v e always prided myself on being . . .  well, nuts.  But in 
this firm, I find myself falling into the sane cate gory. 
Denny Crane:   laughing   You think I’m nuts, do you? 
Alan Shore:  Are you scared? 
Denny Crane:   Scared? What would I be scared of? 
Alan Shore:  Edwin Poole is a friend.  To see him just go off th e high dive? 
Denny Crane:   Edwin Poole’s problem is he doesn’t like being Ed win Poole.  From time to time he’d look in the 
mirror and ask, “What’s the point?” I never do that .  Questions like that’ll kill you. 
Alan Shore:  Questions like, “What’s the point?” 
Denny Crane:   Look--take you for example.  Tomorrow, you’re gon na go into court and argue that some little fat 
black kid should be able to play a little skinny wh ite one.  What’s the point? Pause   You don’t ask—that’s the point.  
You gonna win, by the way? The world wants to know.  
Alan Shore:  I’m afraid not.  There’s no state action.  We’ve as ked for a specific performance with no clear eviden ce 
of discrimination.  I don’t like losing, especially  when there’s a wager involved. 
Denny Crane:   Well, don’t, soldier.  Pull a rabbit out of your hat.  Motions with his index finder for Alan Shore to 
lean closer.  Then, conspiratorially  That’s the secret of both trial law and life. 
Alan Shore:  Rabbits? 
Denny Crane:   nods   Oh, yeah. 
 
Hallway at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Matthew Calder gets out of the elevator, and walks to the reception area.  Alan Shore and Tara Wilson are 
talking.  Tara Wilson turns around. 
Matthew Calder:   Excuse me, I’m looking for . . . you, actually.  All my life.  Matthew. 
Tara Wilson:   Tara. 
Alan Shore:  Alan.  7 Mattthew Calder:   I had a girl who looked like you  looking at Tara Wilson   once.  Married her.  Now she looks like 
you  looks at Alan Shore .  Where the hell is my lawyer? 
 
Conference Room of Crane Poole & Schmidt  
Dr. Sharon Brant, Matthew Calder, Brad Chase, Sally  Heep and Atty. Tompkins  are in conference.  
Sally Heep:  If you took summer, plus winter breaks, spring br eak, holiday weekends—you start to get pretty close  
to what you have now. 
Matthew Calder:  Pass. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   That’s too much custody for Super Dad. 
Brad Chase:   Is there any acceptable scenario that would allow  for Sharon to enroll in her program without leavin g 
the boys behind? 
Matthew Calder:  We could each take one. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   Excuse me? 
Matthew Calder:  You know, like that Nazi movie where the woman has  to pick which kid to keep. 
Atty. Tompkins:  Sophie’s Choice . 
Matthew Calder:  Thank you. 
Atty. Tompkins:  Uh, huh. 
Matthew Calder:  Only this is Sharon’s choice.  One goes with her t o New York; I keep the other one.  Done. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   That’s outrageous.  The boys love each other.  Th —they’re best friends. 
Matthew Calder:  A little weird, don’t you think?  Let’s see what h appens when we split ‘em up. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   Stop doing this! You have already scarred your ch ildren enough to last a lifetime.  Imagine how 
that feels to a little boy—knowing that their fathe r could care less whether he sees them or not! And yet, if it means 
denying me something that I want, something that I deserve, something that this family needs . . . sud denly you’re . 
. . you’re a concerned father! Damn you! 
Matthew Calder:  And what about my needs, huh? What freakish nightm are did I step into that turned my wife who 
was hot, who had sex with me, who liked to go out w ith me at night, into some earth-mother world-recor d setting 
breast feeder? And no, you want to leave your kids with some non-English-speaking nanny for a hundred hours a 
week so you can live out your ER  fantasy life? Be my guest.  But it’s not my proble m that you’re not good enough to 
get hired anywhere in the entire state. 
 
Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Denny Crane is walking with Lawyer #1, when Ernie D ell approaches.  
Ernie Dell:  Denny, did you hire that P.I. yet?  pause   I asked you a question.  Truth be told, my relati onship with 
this firm hangs in the balance. 
Jerry Austin:   Uh, Ernie, why don’t we step into my office . . .  
Ernie Dell:  I’m talking to Denny. 
Denny Crane:   All right, Ernie.  Truth time.  My office. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Denny Crane:   This is not gonna be easy for you to hear, but it  needs to be said.  I don’t give a damn who slept w ith 
your wife.  Neither do you, really.  You don’t love  her.  This is an ego thing.  She’s a trophy girl.  Something for your 
friends to admire.  Maybe you should be flattered. 
Ernie Dell:  I’m not . . . 
Denny Crane:   I’m talking.  Ego, Ernie.  You acquire fast cars and young wives to try and stay young yourself in t he 
hope of confusing youth with relevance.  Well, here ’s a flash for you.  We’re all desperate to be rele vant.  You’re 76 
years old! Want to feel you still mean something? M ove to Florida, punch a chad, screw up an election.   Don’t go 
looking for affirmation between the two artificial jugs of a woman who married you for—Gee, could it b e your 
outstanding sense of humor?  
Ernie Dell raises his hand as if to punch Denny Cra ne. 
Denny Crane:   Take a swing if you want to, if it makes you feel  better. 
Instead, Ernie Dell turns to the door and walks out . 
 
Courtroom #2 
Brad Chase:   The guardian ad litem  acknowledged in her report in the last year, Mr. C alder took custody of the boys 
only one weekend a month. 
Atty. Tompkins:  Mr. Calder’s been steeped in a major work crisis a t his company.  8 Brad Chase:   I don’t care if he’s been dismantling a nuclear w eapon.  The fact is, he hasn’t been there.  There’s  no 
doubt that my client is, in practice, the primary c ustodian.  Now this woman is struggling to make a l ife for her family 
. . . 
Judge Isabel Hernandez:  What? She can’t make it in the Commonwealth? 
Brad Chase:   She’d love to, but the offer comes from New York.   And my client has made every sacrifice . . . 
Judge Isabel Hernandez:  That’s what parents do, Mr. Chase.  You have kids,  you make sacrifices.  They got 
married here, they had children here.  Mr. Calder:  As fathers go, I consider you a disgrace.  Ms. Bra nt:  There is a 
reason for this policy.  We don’t like angry spouse s yanking kids across state lines.  It’s an undue b urden on the 
family unit.  Accordingly, your plan to relocate wi th your sons remains enjoined.  Bangs gavel . 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   What now? 
Brad Chase:   I don’t know. 
Matthew Calder:  sarcastically wiping a fake tear from his eye   I, uh, I guess that didn’t go too well. 
 
Courtroom #1 
Sarah Toomy:   “. . . when I’m stuck with a day that’s gray and lonely; I just stick out my chin and grin and say—
tomorrow, tomorrow, I love ya tomorrow, you’re alwa ys a day away.” 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  Thank you.  That was . . . 
Sarah Toomy:   continuing, with Alan Shore mouthing the words alon g with her   “Tomorrow, tomorrow, I’ll love 
ya tomorrow.  You’re always a day away.” 
Alan Shore claps, grinning as if HE is the stage mo ther 
Alan Shore:  That was great! 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  Sarah, that was magnificent.  But the other little  girl was quite good, too.  And given the 
discretion that has to be allowed to producers in t hese situations . . . 
Alan Shore:  Your Honor, we have something called the Equal Prot ection Clause, we have something called the 14 th  
Amendment—I believe it’s actually required reading for judges.  I could be wrong there.  
Reverend Al Sharpton (from behind Alan):   Could I be heard, your Honor? I heard about this matter.  I would like to 
address this court on what I consider . . . 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  I’m sorry, Reverend, but you have no standing here . 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   I have standing as an American citizen speaking u p on a civil rights violation. 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  Reverend Sharpton, I will ask you to step down . .  . 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   I have standing as Bobby Kennedy had standing, . . . 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  You have no standing in this meeting. 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   . . . on the steps of the courthouse in Alabama! 
Judge Rita Sharpley:  No one is denying this little girl an education, s ir.  She just can’t play Annie . 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   You may think this is a small matter.  But this i s no small matter.  This child is being denied 
the right to play an American icon because she does n’t match the description.  Those descriptions were  crafted 50 
years ago! We’re supposed to be in a different day!  
Judge Rita Sharpley:  Reverend . . . 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   You talk about racial equality, how we’re making progress.  The problem with that progress 
is it’s always a day away.  Tomorrow, tomorrow—you love that!—because it’s always a day away.  I’m her e to stick 
out my chin today! Today! Give us an African-Americ an Spider Man! Give us a black that can run faster than a 
speeding bullet and leap over tall buildings in a s ingle bound! Not tomorrow—today! Today! The sun nee ds to come 
out today! Not tomorrow, your Honor! God Almighty! Give the American people a black Orphan Annie.  It’ s just not 
good enough to say she doesn’t look the part.  
Applause from the spectators’ gallery 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   to Alan Shore   That’s what you call a rabbit, son.  Denny Crane.  
Reverend Al Sharpton exits the courtroom to the tun e of “Tomorrow” 
 
Hallway at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Sally Heep:  What if we file a T.R.O. in federal court on beha lf of the kids? 
Brad Chase:   On what grounds? 
Sally Heep:  I don’t know.  They’ve been denied a right to int erstate travel. 
Brad Chase:   It’s dubious, but I like your thinking. 
Sally Heep:  Come here for a second.  pulling Brad Chase into the law library   Look . . . I just . . . I just need to 
know. 
Brad Chase:   Sally.  9 Sally Heep is not getting an answer from him, becom es uncomfortable, and walks out, passing Alan Shore , 
who is entering from another doorway. 
Alan Shore:  Brad. 
Brad Chase:   Alan. 
 
The Buddha Bar 
Sally Heep:  The deadbeat doesn’t even see his kids, doesn’t k now them, and he’s using them as weapons to 
destroy his ex-wife and them. 
Alan Shore:  And that’s why you were so upset? The case? 
Sally Heep:  It’s a little hard, okay? I . . . I prefer him in  D.C. 
Alan Shore:  Mm, hm.  Do you think I should start working out wi th weights? Maybe do some calisthenics? 
Sally Heep:  I’m trying to, like, express my . . . 
Alan Shore:  You still like him? 
Sally Heep:  Well, what context are you asking as, Alan? I mea n, are you asking as like a boyfriend, or . . . 
Alan Shore:  I’m not allowed to ask questions? 
Sally Heep:  Am I? About Tara? 
Alan Shore:  What about Tara? 
Sally Heep:  sigh   Nothing.  Anyway, he left.  I got very depressed,  drank a lot, hit on too many boys.  sigh   Until I 
met this one boy . . . man . . . distinguished. 
Alan Shore laughs 
Sally Heep:  And now I just . . . Okay.  How small is the town  of Boston? 
Alan Shore:  What? 
Sally:  The dirtbag is right over there. 
Alan Shore:  Bradley? He turns around to look in Matthew Calder’s directi on  
Sally Heep:  The ex-husband. 
Matthew Calder is flirting with beautiful women at the bar across the room. 
Sally Heep:  sigh   Really trying to strengthen that family unit. 
Alan Shore reaches for her personal electronic orga nizer. 
Sally Heep:  What are you doing? 
Alan Shore:  chuckling .  I just need to use your thingie for a second. 
Sally Heep:  Can we get outta here:  I don’t—I don’t wanna loo k at that pig. 
Alan Shore:  Okay. 
Sally Heep heads for the door.    
Alan Shore:  drops some money on their table, types on the org anizer a bit.   We’re off.  He follows Sally Heep 
out. 
 
Denny Crane’s Balcony 
Denny Crane:   I told him we’re all desperate to be relevant. 
Lori Colson:  Were you able to dissuade him? 
Denny Crane:   I think so. 
Lori Colson:  Denny, do you think you were talking about yourse lf a little? You feeling a little desperate to be 
relevant lately? 
Denny Crane:   Don’t waste your time trying to get in my head.  There’s nothing there. 
Lori Colson:  They’re not going to take the firm from you.  Fir st, Paul Lewiston could never get the votes.   Seco nd, 
he wouldn’t want to.  The man loves you. 
Denny Crane:   I’m not worried, Lori.  Do I look worried? Yeah.  Look out there.  My domain.  My city.  I’m Denny 
Crane. 
 
Matthew Calder’s Office 
Alan Shore has gotten past Matthew Calder’s secreta ry, and is looking for Matthew Calder, who is in a 
meeting. 
Secretary:  Sir, if I could just get your name.  I would be h appy to buzz Mr. Calder. 
Alan Shore:  You’re very kind, but look, I’m already here. 
Secretary:  There’s a meeting in progress, though, and I’ve b een instructed not to disturb him.  
Alan Shore:  opening the door to a meeting room and walking in , interrupting Matthew Calder and 
associates.   Hello, Matthew.  Shame.  Quite hoping I’d interru pt something tawdry.  I’m Alan Shore.  Your  10  colleague and I just met, but we seem to share a pr oclivity for exotic women and illicit behavior.  Ca n I steal you a 
second? 
They step out of the meeting room. 
Matthew Calder:   What’s going on? 
Alan Shore:  I’ll keep it quick.  These are for you.  pulls out 8x10 photos in a manila folder, handing t hem to 
Matthew Calder   Photos.  Snapshots, really.  Some delightful litt le business between you and a hooker.  A friend of 
mine, actually.  I earn Frequent Flyer miles.  She’ s a lovely woman.  I arranged for her to seek you o ut at the bar.  I 
particularly like that one, don’t you? Gives your b ottom a nice . . . aura.  Here’s the deal.  Sharon and the kids get to 
go to New York, or I start printing copies.  Is tha t powdered sugar, by the way, that you’re snorting off her 
magnificent porcelain breasts? 
Matthew Calder:   You are a lawyer in a prestigious law firm, for G od’s sake. 
Alan Shore:  I know.  Awful.  Hate to extort and run, but I’m af raid I’ll need an answer on this—now. 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Lori Colson:  Tara, I need to apologize.  I know how degrading that had to be with Ernie.  And . . . 
Tara Wilson:   Not at all.  In fact, I slept with him last night .  Anything for the team. 
Lori Colson:  I suppose I deserved that.  This wasn’t so much f or the team as it is for Denny.  There’s some stuff  
going on . . . 
Denny Crane:   What stuff? 
Ernie Dell:  Denny, I need another moment. 
Denny Crane follows Ernie Dell to  
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Ernie Dell:  I was thinking how right you are not to hire a pr ivate investigator.  I thank you for your counsel. After all, 
it’s possible that I might learn something that cou ld upset me even further.  I hadn’t considered that .  Did you 
consider that, Denny? 
Denny Crane:   Ernie, I don’t have time to consider all the thin gs I have to consider. 
Ernie Dell:  Um, hmm.  Can we sit? 
Denny Crane:   Oh, yeah; please. 
Ernie Dell:  See, the thing is, fool that I am, I went out and  hired a P.I. on my own.  And guess what I found ou t, 
Denny? 
Denny Crane:   I’m not sure, Ernie, but you need to know that I’ m billing you for all these rhetorical questions. 
Ernie Dell:  pulling out a gun; sighs   My own lawyer.  My friend . . . with my wife.  Ge e, Denny Crane is silent.  
Talk to me about my quest for relevance, Denny.  Te ll me about my ego.  Come up with one last profound  thing to 
say before I pull this trigger.  Come on, Denny, ta lk.  I want to hear what the great Denny Crane has to say now. 
Denny Crane:   First off:  Clients come in here all the time wan ting to shoot me.  You know what I tell them?  Go 
ahead.  The worst thing about growing older, Ernie?  You begin to slip.  One day you wake up and you’re  “less 
than.” And for me? I’m a legend, Ernie.  I’m folklo re in this town.  Lawyers have feared me for years.   For Denny 
Crane to slip? It would diminish my legacy.  It wou ld be a tragedy.  Denny Crane has to go out big—pag e one of the 
Globe —New York Times , even.  Do me a favor, Ernie.  Pull the trigger.  Immortalize the legend.  Pull the trigger.  I 
don’t ever  want to be “less than.” Don’t let me become irrele vant.  Pull it! 
Ernie Dell:  cocks the gun   Okay.  But before I do, don’t you at least want t o apologize? 
Denny Crane:   nods   I do.  I’m sorry, my friend.  I’m truly sorry.  E rnie, uh, that gun—I bought it for you.  
Remember? It’s a starter pistol, Ernie.   
Ernie Dell sighs, nods, uncocks the pistol, and sit s back in his chair. 
 
Conference Room of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore, Sarah and Beah Toomy are sitting on one  side of the table; the producers’ lawyers on the o ther 
side. 
Alan Shore:  It’s a controversy.  That’s what Al Sharpton does.  And he does it well.  He doesn’t just make noise.  
He lights and carries a torch of racial controversy .  
Atty. Smith:  Mr. Shore, . . .  
Alan Shore:  Which you know.  Which is why you’re here.  We need  to put this one out, good people.  Controversy 
is bad business for musicals.  Your production will  open and close faster than you can say, “Trent Lot t.” I assume 
you’ve come with a proposal.  Let’s have it.  No answer   Sarah? 
Sarah Toomy:   “When I’m stuck with a day, that’s . . .”  11  Atty. Smith:  interrupting   Okay.  We’ll offer you the role of understudy on weekends. 
Alan Shore looks to Beah Toomy. 
Beah Toomy:   Plus three matinees a month. 
Atty. Smith:  Done. 
Alan Shore:  smiling   Sarah? 
Sarah Toomy:   serious look; nod s 
Alan Shore claps, and smiles at the “done deal.” Be ah Toomy  also looks satisfied.  Atty. Smith  nods, and 
Sarah smiles. 
 
Lori Colson’s Office 
Brad Chase and Lori Colson are drinking beer.  
Brad Chase:   entering   Pulled a gun on him! 
Lori Colson:  It only shot blanks, but, yeah.  Drama’s over.  H ow’s it feel being back? 
Brad Chase:   It’s all right.  pause   Let me ask you a question.  I’d appreciate an hon est answer. 
Lori Colson:  Okay. 
Brad Chase:   talking too fast   Do you think I talk too fast? 
Lori Colson:  Umm . . . Sometimes, you’re a little brisk. 
Brad Chase:   I think it’s good business practice, not to menti on good business ethics.  We charge by the hour.  O ur 
clients pay for the time that we spend talking.  As  attorneys, we have an obligation not to over-bill our clients, so if I 
talk fast, it’s just because I feel . . . 
Lori Colson:  Ethically bound. 
Brad Chase:   He makes fun of me. 
Lori Colson:  I’m sorry? 
Brad Chase:   Shore.  He thinks I’m a Ken doll.  sigh   No.  It’s not right.  He calls me a Ken doll whil e he . . . 
Lori Colson:  laughing   . . . plays with your Barbie. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   knocks   Excuse me.  Hi. 
Brad Chase:   Sharon. 
Dr. Sharon Brant:   I just . . . I just came to say thank you.  Not t hat I agree with your tactics.  But what this means  to 
me and—and my children . . . well, thank you so muc h.  I will never forget this. 
 
Balcony Scene 
Denny Crane:   Remember that book? One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Ne st? 
Alan Shore:  Yes.  He pauses to give Denny time to continue, but Denny  does not.  Is there a point, or did you 
just want to know if I’d read it? 
Denny Crane:   There you go again.  Always looking for a point. 
Brad Chase:   walking in on them   Matthew Calder just agreed to let his wife move w ith their children. 
Denny Crane:   Fantastic. 
Brad Chase:   You got pictures of him with a hooker.  You black mailed him. 
Alan Shore:  You make it sound unsavory. 
Brad Chase:   Listen to me.  I know how you practice law.  I do n’t practice law like that.  
Alan Shore:  It was a rabbit.  Well, really, a bunny.  Marines d on’t like bunnies?  
Brad Chase:   You know the only reason I don’t report you to th e Bar, mister . . . 
Alan Shore:  Is because Sharon might not be able to go to New Yo rk with her children, which shockingly is more 
important than our combined ethical egos. 
Brad Chase:   You know what, sport? You and I now officially ha ve a relationship. 
Alan Shore:  Great.  Perhaps we can get together and do a couple  of push-ups, sport.  He sits in his chair, 
looking out at the city below. 
Brad Chase looks to Denny Crane, who does not meet his gaze, then turns and walks out.   
Denny Crane:   laughs  Hooker rabbits. I love it. 
Alan Shore:  You know, you never answered my question the other night. 
Denny Crane:   exhales   Which was? 
Alan Shore:  Are you scared? 
Denny Crane:   The only thing to be scared of, son, is tomorrow.   I don’t live for tomorrow.  Never saw the fun in it. 
Alan Shore:  Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane:   What was that? 
Alan Shore:  Nothing.  Raises his glass to toast Denny  Crane   Here’s to no tomorrows. 