 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   1 
 Boston Legal  
Truth Be Told 
Season 1, Episode 6 
Written by Scott Kaufer 
© 2004 David E. Kelley Productions. All Rights Rese rved. 
Broadcast: Nov 7, 2004 
Transcribed by SueB for Boston-Legal.org  
 
An elevator door opens, and the occupants exit into  the offices of Crane, Poole & Schmidt.  
Jack Fleming: Roberta’s mad at me, sweetheart. Can you feel it? 
Roberta Sloane: I’m not mad. I just wonder if with only two days le ft this is the most optimal use of your time 
especially since we’re missing vital one-on-one int erface with the swing voters at the Faneuil Hall ev ent this 
morning, not to mention - 
Samantha Fleming: Roberta. Roberta, we have plenty of time for all th at. We’ll just be here 20 minutes.  
Roberta Sloane: And then we’ll need to get you straight down to the  harbor for the E.P.A. announcement which 
will have crews from every local station.  
Stu Himelfarb: Cable news. 
Roberta Sloane: Probably make tomorrow’s Globe above the fold. So, 20 minutes, right? 
Jack Fleming: Wh - yes, 20 minutes.  
The group approaches a conference room where Alan S hore and Tara Wilson are waiting. Samantha and 
Alan make eye contact through the glass window and smile at each other.  
Samantha Fleming: And that’s another thing. Who the hell is Alan Shor e?   
Samantha Fleming enters the conference room first. 
Alan Shore: Hello, Samantha.  
Samantha Fleming: Alan. Hmm. (they embrace) 
Alan Shore: Samantha Fleming, this is Tara Wilson. 
Samantha Fleming: Hello. 
Tara Wilson: Pleasure. Do you get any sleep at all? 
Samantha Fleming: Yes, about three hours a night. 
Jack Fleming enters the room. 
Jack Fleming: Twenty minutes. 
Roberta Sloane: Jack, don’t you think I should be part of the meeti ng? 
Jack Fleming: No. Samantha and I will take this one alone. Oh. (h e hands her his overcoat to hold) 
 
A political advertisement is playing on a video scr een in the conference room. 
Commercial on TV: The accusations were shocking. Money laundering. Ta x evasion. Obstruction of justice. The 
verdict: guilty on all counts. And now, believe it or not, Jack Fleming wants to be our next mayor. As k yourself, 
would you rather have a candidate with convictions or a candidate who’s been convicted?  (the ad ends with a 
black and white photo of Jack Fleming behind bars) Paid for by the committee to re-elect Mayor Thomas 
Snyder.  
Alan Shore: In your defense, I suppose black and white makes us  all look a bit like Moe Howard.  
Jack Fleming: Well, it gets me ticked off every time I see the da mn thing, and there is not a word of truth in it. 
But apparently, that doesn’t matter. You know, I’ve  got three Harvard law professors and a former U.S.  attorney 
on my campaign steering committee all saying that t here is no way that I can get that ad yanked off th e air. So 
… I doubt if you’ve got a silver bullet here, Al. N o offense.  
Alan Shore: Alan. None taken.  
Samantha Fleming: The ad is completely false. Jack was never convicte d of those charges. It was a third 
generation family real estate trust. He was a passi ve beneficiary, a victim of a trustee whose greed g ot the trust 
prosecuted, not Jack personally. I know you can hel p us.  
Jack Fleming: You should feel flattered, Alan. My - my wife seems  to hold you in very high esteem.  
Alan Shore: And I her. As you know, in college not a day went b y that I didn’t long to sleep with you. I hope I’m 
not being inappropriate.  
Jack Fleming: As a matter of fact, you are. 
Alan Shore: Then my apologies. When you spoke about truth a mom ent ago, I guess I mistook that as a 
preference for full disclosure.  
Samantha Fleming: Uh, boys, we don’t have time for this. Alan, I know  it’s gonna be tough to get an injunction  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   2 
 on this thing.  
Alan Shore: You’ve read the First Amendment then.  
Samantha Fleming: Three days ago, we had a double-digit lead. Then th ey put this thing on the air, and our 
overnight polls dropped six points in 72 hours. If we don’t move fast, we’re going to lose, all becaus e of this late 
hit. These lies. Please help us.  
 
Alan Shore and Tara Wilson are walking in the hallw ay at Crane, Poole & Schmidt. 
Tara Wilson: Let me see if I understand this. In college, you lo nged to have sex with her. 
Alan Shore: Yes.  
Tara Wilson: You ached to feel her naked body pressed up against  yours.  
Alan Shore: Yes. Well said. 
Tara Wilson: And yet, nothing between the two of you ever happen ed? 
Alan Shore: We suffered from bad timing. You’re wondering if th at’s our destiny - yours and mine. Twenty years 
of unrequited foreplay. 
Tara Wilson: Is that what you want? 
Alan Shore: Is that what you want? 
Tara Wilson: Well, it just seems that our timing might also - 
Paul Lewiston approaches, cutting off Tara in mid-s entence. 
Paul Lewiston: Mr. Shore, I saw you in the conference room with Ja ck Fleming. What were you two doing? 
Alan Shore: Tai chi, actually.  
Paul Lewiston: I hope it is clear to you that it would be an unacc eptable conflict of interest for you to represent 
Jack Fleming in any matter. This firm is extremely close to Mayor Snyder.  
Alan Shore: Then this firm should take a shower, don’t you thin k? He is a callous, smug and brutish man who 
hates the poor and abuses the powerless.  
Paul Lewiston: You’re not following me. We earn a great deal of mo ney working for the city, due primarily to 
Mayor Snyder’s good will. One would think that was obvious. 
Alan Shore: One would. (Paul walks away) Well. (turning to  fac e Tara) Now I have to take the case.  
 
Denny Crane is sitting in a hospital examining room  with a doctor.  
Dr. Thomas Lee: Now, I’m going to ask you a series of  - 
Denny Crane: Denny  Crane! 
Dr. Thomas Lee: Why did you just say that? 
Denny Crane: Well, isn’t that how you guys usually begin a menta l examination, by determining if the subject 
knows his own name? 
Dr. Thomas Lee: Well, yes. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane.  
Dr. Thomas Lee: Got it. And who am I, Dr. Crane? 
Denny Crane: You are Dr. Thomas H. Lee, neurologist. 
Dr. Thomas Lee: Good. Can you tell me what day of the week this is?  
Denny Crane: Monday. And a particularly crisp and beautiful one,  too, I might add.  
Dr. Thomas Lee: Good. And who is the current president of the Unite d States? 
Denny Crane: That would be Ernest Borgnine. (there is an uncomfo rtable pause) Ah. I’ll bet you get lunatics in 
here every day that - that say that stuff for real,  right? (Dr. Lee takes some notes in silence) The c urrent 
president of the United States is George Walker Bus h, son to George Herbert Walker Bush, whose father was 
the late United States Senator Prescott Bush, who, as an undergraduate at Yale, once wrestled my fathe r in the 
nude. But that’s a story for another day. Let’s sti ck to the issues at hand. Denny Crane.  
 
At the John Joseph Moakley United States Courthouse , Lori Colson is in Judge Rose Olsheim’s 
courtroom. 
Lori Colson: Flight risk? Your Honor, my client can barely walk.  He weights 300 pounds and suffers from acute 
rheumatoid arthritis. 
Adrian: Plus, I think I got a touch of the gout, Judge. I a in’t going nowhere. 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: He was moving at a pretty good clip when he left th at jewelry store. 
Adrian: It was a one-time adrenaline rush. 
Judge Rose Olsen: Your O.R. motion is denied, Miss Colson. Bail set a t 50,000. We’ll take 15, folks.  
The defendant groans as he struggles to get up from  his chair.   
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   3 
 Bailiff: This way. (he leads the defendant away) 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland and Lori Colson are left al one in the courtroom. He approaches Lori.  
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: You got a minute? 
Lori Colson: Sure. 
 
The two attorneys have moved to a private meeting r oom. 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: I need a good lawyer. You available? 
Lori Colson: Flattered. What’s up? 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: Well, Marcy and I split up. 
Lori Colson: Yeah. I was so sorry to hear that. I can recommend somebody, Richard, but I don’t do matrimonial 
work.  
A.D.A Richard Kirkland: No, no. I already found somebody for that part. The re’s something else. (he pauses and 
sighs) Five years ago when my son was born, we save d his umbilical cord blood. 
Lori Colson: You mean in the delivery room? 
A.D.A Richard Kirkland: Right. We got it stored in one of those cryo-labs j ust in case Zachary ever needs to use 
it to treat a cancer he develops, God forbid. Welco me to parenting in the new millennium. Anyway, the account, 
it was opened in Marcy’s name which, at the time, I  didn’t think twice about. But now, the lab is sayi ng that 
makes her the responsible party, not the two of us jointly. She’s refusing to release the cord blood. She won’t let 
it be used.  
Lori Colson: Your son is sick? 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: I’m sick. Multiple myeloma. It was diagnosed six mo nths ago.  
Lori Colson: Oh, Richard, I - 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: Chemo hasn’t worked so far, and they’re saying that  I need a bone marrow transplant. 
But they can’t find a suitable donor.  
Lori Colson: And your son’s cord blood would work instead? 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: They think so. 
Lori Colson: It’s just sitting there in a freezer? 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: Just sitting. Without it, they give me six months. Maybe. Do you think I got a lawsuit? 
Lori Colson: Let’s meet with her first, hope we don’t have to fi le. 
A.D.A. Richard Kirkland: Good. Okay. Thanks.  
 
Sally Heep is with her client, Mark Shrum, as he pr ovides a deposition. 
Male Attorney: And then what happened, Mr. Shrum? 
Mark Shrum: Well, when I couldn’t get the Pop Tart out of the t oaster, I unplugged it. And then I jammed a fork 
down the slot, and I guess I must’ve jiggered it ar ound pretty good because - 
Sally Heep: Give us a moment, please. (quietly) Mark, what did I tell you about volunteering extraneous 
information?  
Mark Shrum: Not to. 
Sally Heep: Right. This is a deposition. You answer the questio ns truthfully but never volunteer anything. So 
don’t add stuff like “jiggering forks around pretty  good.” Just answer every question with as few word s as 
possible. 
Mark Shrum: Got it. Sorry. (the two turn back to the questioner s) 
Male Attorney: All right, Mr. Shrum, when you repeatedly manipulat ed the fork around in the toaster slot, and 
then received an electrical shock and second degree  burns, whose fault would you say that was? 
Mark Shrum: (hesitantly) Mine? (Sally turns to him again) I can ’t answer any shorter. That was one word. 
 
Paul Lewiston and Denny Crane have just entered Den ny’s office. 
Paul Lewiston: Denny, we really do need to talk. The partners are concerned. 
Denny Crane: About what? 
Paul Lewiston: Well, your billables. Do you realize that so far th is year, you’ve only billed 1,400 hours which is 
200 hours less than you had billed up to this point  in calendar ‘03, which was, as you know, a year th at saw a 
marked decline - 
Denny Crane: (lifting the cover off an elegant place-setting on his desk) Breakfast? 
Paul Lewiston: I already ate. In short, Denny, you are coming in l ight by about 700,000 a year, which means that 
since calendar ‘99 alone, you have cost us 3.5 mill ion.  
Denny Crane: You ever forget things?  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   4 
 Paul Lewiston: Things? Like what? 
Denny Crane: I don’t know. People’s names, where you put the car  keys, whether or not you showered … what 
a case you’re arguing is all about? 
Paul Lewiston: Not really. 
Denny Crane: Well, you should get it looked at just the same. Yo u could have what is called mild cognitive 
impairment. It’s a precursor to Alzheimer’s.  
Paul Lewiston: Denny, you are theoretically our foremost rainmaker , but you haven’t brought in a new seven-
figure client in two years. You haven’t filed a cla ss action in five years. Care to guess how much Lis by, DeRusen 
and Floren billed as lead counsel in the tobacco cl ass action? 127 million. It’s raining cash out ther e, Denny. 
We’re not getting wet.  
Denny Crane: You could do crossword puzzles. 
Paul Lewiston: Excuse me? 
Denny Crane: It’s a great brain stimulator. So is learning new s kills. You know what else helps? Speaking from 
time to time in a foreign language. (speaking quiet ly in French). Un bon après-midi . En parlement plutôt passé. 
Un bon après-midi . (translation: A good afternoon. It’s been said be fore. A good afternoon).  
 
Tara Wilson is walking down the hallway when she sp ots something through a window. She enters a 
library area to find Denny Crane pecking at a compu ter keyboard.  
Tara Wilson: (incredulously) What are you …. doing? 
Denny Crane: Researching a case citation.  
Tara Wilson: Have you ever used a computer before? 
Denny Crane: An entirely new experience. 
 
In Judge Gordon Kolodny’s courtroom. 
Attorney Gellman: Bottom line, Your Honor, if Mr. Fleming feels aggri eved by the way he’s portrayed in my 
client’s campaign commercials, then let him counter  it with commercials of his own. As Justice Brandei s said, 
the best antidote to false speech is more speech.  
Alan Shore: It’s not surprising Brandeis would say that. He was  a well-known drunk and pedophile.  
Attorney Gellman: No, he wasn’t. 
Alan Shore: That’s right. He wasn’t. I made it up. Does anyone have a problem with me making provably false 
accusations about honorable people just so my side can win? Because that’s certainly their strategy. 
Samantha Fleming: (speaking quietly to Tara Wilson) He’s amazing. 
Tara Wilson: Yes. We’re quite fond of him. 
Attorney Gellman: Mr. Shore is asking that you impose prior restraint  on speech. And not just any speech, but 
the robust dialogue of a political contest. We don’ t do that in this country. 
Alan Shore: If they took a song from the Beatles catalog and us ed it in a campaign commercial without 
permission, would you order the commercial off the air? Of course you would. 
Attorney Gellman: It’s an absurd analogy, Your Honor. 
Alan Shore: What if they ran a campaign commercial with footage  of this young woman right here showering? 
(he points to the court reporter) Footage secretly taken with a lipstick camera mounted in her health club locker 
room.  
Attorney Gellman: This is ridiculous. 
Alan Shore: The point is, in all of those cases, we absolutely would see injunctive relief granted because those 
are rights worth protecting. And so is the right of  Jack Fleming to have the truth told about his life .  
Attorney Gellman: But how do we determine the truth, Your Honor? Woul d Mr. Shore have us establish a 
government department of veracity? Mr. Fleming alre ady has a remedy available. It’s called a slander s uit. 
Alan Shore: I’m curious. When one wins a slander suit, does the  court award votes?  Because that’s the issue 
here. They’re trying to cost him the election now e ven if they have to pay him a few dollars years fro m now.  
Judge Gordon Kolodny: Well, this has been fascinating, gentlemen. Kind of  like debate night at Mensa. Mr. 
Gellman, that TV spot you’re defending is emphatica lly vile. But, Mr. Shore, he’s right. Political spe ech is not 
subject to prior judicial review. And thank the Lor d, or it’s all I’d ever do. (he slams his gavel) We ’re adjourned. 
 
A cluster of shouting reporters and camera crews is  waiting as they exit the courtroom and walk down 
the corridor to the privacy of an elevator.  
Stu Himelfarb: Well, that was discouraging. 
Alan Shore: It was. I’m sorry.   
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   5 
 Samantha Fleming: You tried.  
Jack Fleming: What now? 
Roberta Sloane: I’m gonna recommend we do a gang bang sit-down with  the four local anchormen. Obviously, 
you by Jack’s side doing the whole “stand by your m an” thing. Very important when accusations go to ch aracter 
like this. We answer every question, dominate the a irwaves. The message: our guy is a superior piece o f 
manpower. Feedback? 
Jack Fleming: Sounds good. (to Samantha) That copacetic on your e nd? 
Samantha Fleming: Mmm, sure. 
Alan Shore: Copacetic on my end, too. (to Tara Wilson) Your end ? (he glances down at Tara’s rear end) 
 
Lori Colson, Richard Kirkland, and Marcy Kirkland a re in a diner.  
Waitress: Got it. Right back with your coffee.  
Marcy Kirkland: Thank you. 
Lori Colson: Well, we’re very grateful that you agreed to meet w ith us. 
Marcy Kirkland: Did I have a choice? You were pretty insistent on t he phone. 
Lori Colson: Sorry. It’s just a situation of some urgency. And I  know you said you didn’t want to retain counsel, 
but I would respectfully suggest - 
Marcy Kirkland: We’ve spent enough on lawyers. Had a five-star divo rce, didn’t we, Richard? Look, I have to 
pick up Zach from a play date, so -  
Richard Kirkland: Well, what I came to say, it’s simple, Marcy. I’m s ick, and I need your help. 
Marcy Kirkland: I can’t let you use Zach’s cord blood. I told you t hat when you called. What if he gets sick and 
needs it himself? We saved it for a reason. 
Lori Colson: Marcy, I can certainly understand your feelings, bu t perhaps - 
Marcy Kirkland: Do you have children, Miss Colson? 
Lori Colson: No. 
Richard Kirkland: You wanna protect Zach, and I understand that. But how about protecting him from losing his 
father? 
Marcy Kirkland: He’s not gonna lose you. You’re strong. You’ll beat  this. 
Richard Kirkland: No. Not without a compatible donor.  This isn’t som e simple transfusion we’re talking about. 
They need an exact match, and they can’t find one. They’ve tried, Marcy. Don’t you get it? 
Marcy Kirkland: Well, they should keep trying. 
Richard Kirkland: But I’m running out of time! 
Marcy Kirkland: Please don’t yell at me. 
Richard Kirkland: (sighs) I’m sorry. I was thinking on the way over h er about the day Zach was born and holding 
him and feeling as if I was part of some continuum.  Feeling as if - It’s stupid, but feeling as if I h ad thrown my 
DNA forward into the future. You know, like some bi ological javelin. He’s my flesh and blood, Marcy. I  would 
never do anything to put him at risk. I’ve read all  the literature. I mean, the chances of Zach ever n eeding to use 
this are about one in 2,700. But I need it … now … to live. I am his flesh and blood, too, Marcy.  
Marcy Kirkland: Please, don’t ask me about this again. Either of yo u. (she leaves the restaurant) 
Lori Colson: It’s okay.  
 
Alan Shore is studying a document on his desk when Paul Lewiston enters. 
Paul Lewiston: I understand you provided representation to Jack Fl eming after all, contrary to my explicit 
instructions.  
Alan Shore: I did. But please understand, ordinarily, I place g reat value on all thing explicit.  
Paul Lewiston: Is it your feeling that Denny Crane will protect yo u from me? 
Alan Shore: It is. To the extent that he recalls who I am.  
Paul Lewiston: Well, perhaps it will jog his memory when I devote a large portion of next month’s senior partners 
meeting to a discussion of your situation here. (Ta ra Wilson has entered the office, and Paul passes h er as he 
exits.) Miss Wilson.  
Tara Wilson: Was that man threatening you again? 
Alan Shore: Yes. It seems to be his job description. 
Tara Wilson: CNN said the election was too close to call. Flemin g is up two points, but it’s within the margin of 
error.  
Alan Shore: I think that’s what I’ll call my autobiography - “W ithin the Margin of Error”.  
Tara Wilson: Will I be in it?  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   6 
 Alan Shore: Depends on who ghosts it. I’ll certainly lobby on y our behalf. .  
Tara Wilson: Well … I’ll expect a chapter minimum.  
Alan Shore: Well, I would imagine you could earn a chapter quit e easily -  (he leans close) 
Sally Heep enters the office, interrupting the exch ange. 
Sally Heep: I was wondering if you could help me with this prod uct liability issue. Never mind.  
Alan Shore: No, please. I’m all yours. 
Sally Heep: Hardly.  
 
Sally Heep exits Alan’s office, walks down the hall way, and enters a library area and picking out a bo ok. 
Denny Crane is there.  
Denny Crane: Ever used a computer? 
Sally Heep: Denny. Um, yes. Yes, I have. 
Denny Crane: Remarkable machine.  
Sally Heep: Let me ask you a question. A manufacturer of toaste rs should anticipate that their written safety 
instructions will be ignored to the extent that the y’re counterintuitive and should plan for that cont ingency, right? 
Denny Crane: In an ideal world.  
 
Marcy Kirkland is crossing a street with her car ke y out. She spots Lori Colson waiting for her. 
Marcy Kirkland: What are you doing here? 
Lori Colson: I was afraid you’d hang up if I tried calling you. Can we talk? 
Marcy Kirkland: I have nothing else to say.  
Lori Colson: I think I know your secret.  
The next shot is of the two women sitting in Marcy’ s car. 
Marcy Kirkland: It was only one time. Richard and I just had a huge  fight. I went to spend the weekend at my 
sister’s, and there was a guy there, this housegues t of hers. We were all drinking wine, and suddenly,  he and I 
were alone. And it just happened. I agonized about whether or not to have the baby. And in retrospect,  I can’t 
imagine not, you know? But I promised myself that R ichard would never, ever find out. You can’t tell h im. 
Lori Colson: You  should tell him. He deserves to know. Especially n ow.  
Marcy Kirkland: No, now would be the worst time. Being Zach’s fathe r is what he lives for.  
Lori Colson: If you won’t tell him, I will. I’m his attorney. I have an obligation. 
Marcy Kirkland: Just tell him I won’t release the cord blood. Tell him to keep trying to find a match. He needs to 
keep trying. If Zachary’s blood could save him, of course I would let him have it. And it tears me apa rt that I can’t 
tell him that, but I can’t. (sighs) How did you fig ure it out? 
Lori Colson: Occupational hazard. I watch people’s eyes. When Ri chard was telling you how he felt the day 
Zach was born - 
Marcy Kirkland: Promise me you won’t tell him.  
Lori Colson: I have an obligation. 
 
It’s a stormy wet evening. Alan Shore exits his bed room in his pajamas and robe to respond to a knock 
at the door.  He opens the door to find a rain-soak ed Samantha Fleming.  
Alan Shore: Samantha. You’re wet. 
Samantha Fleming: It’s raining. He’s screwing her. That media consult ant, Roberta? She left a detailed message 
on his cell phone. Didn’t know I was borrowing it.  
Alan Shore: Come in. Get dry. 
Samantha Fleming: Buy me a drink? 
 
Later, the two of them are in a quiet drinking esta blishment. Jackpot’s “Far Far Far” plays in the 
background.  
Samantha Fleming: Maybe if he’d done it with somebody extraordinary. Roberta, she’s - (shakes her head and 
sighs) She’s just so - 
Alan Shore: Sufficient.  
Samantha Fleming (she nods in agreement, chuckles, and then sniffles ): I’m sorry.  
Alan Shore: It’s fine. This is my regular place. I bring crying  women here all the time.  
Samantha Fleming: Oh, really? (she laughs and sighs) Well, I guess I’ m that cliché. The credulous political wife. 
Cheated on, humiliated, didn’t see it coming. I hav e to do that interview with him tomorrow. Stand by my man. 
He doesn’t know that I know. What do I do?  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   7 
 Alan Shore: What do you want? 
Samantha Fleming: I want out. I guess I am out. I guess I’ve been out . I do want him to win the election. I do. 
He’d be a great mayor. He really does care about pe ople.  
Alan Shore: As long as they’re strangers to him.  
Samantha Fleming: You really don’t like him. Is that why you made tha t joke in your conference room when you- 
Alan Shore: When I said not a day in college went by that I did n’t long to sleep with you? 
Samantha Fleming: Yeah. 
Alan Shore: It wasn’t a joke. I had a place all picked out back  then. A motel out on Route 9. The Aloha Inn. 
Samantha Fleming: Oh.  
Alan Shore: I thought you might appreciate the tropical ambienc e.  
Samantha Fleming: I’m imagining a lot of rattan and plastic orchids.  
Alan Shore: There’s a neon sign out fron that blinks “Aloha” in  orange, then “Inn” in pink, then the hula girl’s s kirt 
in green, over and over and over.  
Samantha Fleming: Sounds lush. 
Alan Shore: And all night long, the rooms are flooded with the glow of that neon. And I always wondered how 
you would look naked in all that pink, green and or ange.  
 
The next morning at the bustling Fleming campaign h eadquarters. Alan Shore walks in and sees 
Samantha Fleming sitting on a couch alone, seemingl y staring into space. Alan walks up behind the 
couch and leans over.  
Alan Shore: Hi. 
Samantha Fleming: Hi. 
Alan Shore: You okay? 
Samantha Fleming: Mm-hmm. 
The scene shifts to the actual focus of Samantha’s gaze - Roberta Sloane fussing over Jack Fleming 
while he is being made up for an interview. 
Alan Shore: I’m going to see if the candidate can squeeze me in  for a moment. (he walks over to Jack Fleming) 
A moment of your time? 
Roberta Sloane: Are you joking? We’re about to start.  
Alan Shore: It’s a pressing matter. Perhaps we could duck in th ere.  
Jack Fleming, mystified, follows Alan into an adjoi ning room and closes the door behind him. 
Jack Fleming: You’ve got 30 seconds.  
Alan Shore: Then I’d better jump right in. Do you have a favori te movie about politics? Mine is The Candidate . 
Jack Fleming: Okay, we’re done here. 
Alan Shore: I still have 20 seconds left. I especially like tha t scene after Redford wins the election when he ask s 
his top adviser, “Marvin, what do we do now?” 
Jack Fleming: Good-bye, Mr. Shore. 
Alan Shore: You’re a married man, Jack, having a furtive, sexua l relationship with your media consultant. Which 
begs the question, “Marvin, what do we do now?” Of course, your name isn’t Marvin, and Redford had alr eady 
won. You, on the other hand, could still lose if an ything unpleasant were to come up. 
Jack Fleming (after pausing for several seconds to take in what he’s just heard): Does she know? 
Alan Shore : Use her name. 
Jack Fleming: Does Samantha know? 
Alan Shore: Samantha knows.  
Fleming silently walks over to a chair, sits down a nd sighs heavily.  
Alan Shore: (pulling a document out from his overcoat) This is a memorandum of agreement. By all means, read 
it when you have a free moment. (placing the docume nt on a table in front of Fleming) But I’ll need yo ur 
signature right now, I’m afraid. So here are the he adlines. Samantha will do you little dog and pony s how out 
there and all other events with you from now throug h the inauguration, should you be lucky enough to h ave one. 
She, of course, smiling at all times exactly like P at Nixon. And in return, after the divorce, she get s a meaningful 
role in every high-level appointment and every majo r policy initiative during your first term. She put  you here. 
She’s earned it.   
Jack Fleming: I would never, ever give her that. Do you understan d? 
Alan Shore: Perfectly. So then, we’ll handle this transaction i n the only currency that’s really available to us. 
Samantha gets the house in Nantucket, 75% of all fu nds in the various bank accounts as of close of bus iness 
yesterday, the mutual funds in their entirety, and 60% of all other assets as determined by the forens ic  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   8 
 accountants that we will hire and you will pay for.  (a pause) Oh. (he chuckles as he takes a pen out f rom his 
coat, uncaps it and places it on the table). Uh, be  sure to date it on the bottom there.  
After a long hard stare at Alan, Fleming picks up t he pen and signs the memorandum.  
 
Paul Lewiston is in Lori Colson’s office. 
Paul Lewiston: You can’t lie to a client. 
Lori Colson: I know. I told her. It’s just the news will crush h im, Paul. And to what end? What good will have 
been done? 
Paul Lewiston: He will have been dealt with truthfully by his atto rney. That’s the good.  
Lori Colson: I know all the law school arguments. Let’s talk rea l world here.  
Paul Lewiston: Okay, real world. If I learned that an attorney in this firm knowingly told a lie to a client - a lie 
central to the matter the client had retained us to  handle - I would personally report it to the ethic s committee of 
the state bar, regardless of whatever respect or af fection I might feel for the attorney in question.  
There is a knock on the door, and Richard Kirkland steps into the office. 
Richard Kirkland: Oh, I’m sorry. 
Paul Lewiston: I was just leaving.  
Lori Colson: Hey.  
Richard Kirkland: Hi. (He nods as Paul leaves the office) Thanks for seeing me on such short notice. I know I 
could’ve just faxed this over, but I wanted to mass age some of the language with you. Clearly, you’re gonna be 
a better judge on whether the  arguments here are t oo inflammatory - 
Lori Colson: Richard. 
Richard Kirkland: - which is the obvious pitfall filing appellate pap ers against your ex-wife. 
Lori Colson: Richard, listen. 
Richard Kirkland: I’ll just shut up and let you read it. I’m sorry. 
Lori Colson: Look, there’s something I need to tell you, and I d on’t know how to begin. 
Paul Lewiston is outside the office, watching as Lo ri Colson continues to speak. Her words are 
inaudible, but whatever she is saying has a devasta ting effect, as Richard sinks into a chair with his  
hand to his head. Paul walks away. 
 
A smiling Sally Heep flounces into the lobby of Cra ne, Poole & Schmidt.  
Sally Heep (to the receptionist): You said my client was here,  Mark Shrum? 
Receptionist: He was here. Mr. Crane came out of get him.  
Sally Heep: Denny got him?  
Sally walks determinedly down the hall to Denny Cra ne’s office, where she sees Denny speaking to Mark 
Shrum. As she watches incredulously, Denny picks up  a box of cigars and offers one to her client. Sall y 
shakes her head helplessly. 
 
Lori Colson and Richard Kirkland are seated in her office. 
Richard Kirkland: I don’t understand how Marcy could do this. 
Lori Colson: She feels deeply ashamed. But the priority now has to be finding you a suitable donor.  
Richard Kirkland: But how could Marcy destroy the cord blood? 
Lori Colson: It wasn’t intentional. She was having it transferre d last week from one lab to another. I guess she 
wanted to hide it from you. There was a shipping gl itch. It went 36 hours without being refrigerated. She’s 
devastated. I talked to Denny Crane. He’s a trustee  of Boston General. He’s having their chief of onco logy call 
you tomorrow.  
Richard Kirkland: Thank you. That’s very kind.   
Lori Colson: They’ll find you a match. I know they will. You’re gonna get through this.  
Richard Kirkland: Let’s hope.  
 
It’s election night at Fleming campaign headquarter s. Jack and Samantha Fleming are watching the 
television coverage while campaign aides circulate nervously, many speaking on cell phones. 
TV Anchorman: And at other times, often obnoxious, this refusal o f Mayor Snyder to agree to debate his 
challenger. Of course, there was one joint campaign  appearance, the candidates sharing the same stage.  At 
one point several weeks ago, when the Snyder camp c alled a debate in which the …   
Alan Shore approaches Roberta Sloane, who is drinki ng a cup of coffee.  
Alan Shore: It feels good, doesn’t it?  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   9 
 Roberta Sloane: What feels good? 
Alan Shore: Having sex with a candidate. If he wins - I bet the  orgasms are even better if he wins. I’m jealous. 
Roberta walks away in disgust.  
TV Anchorman: And we’re ready to make a call in the race for mayo r of Boston.  
Campaign Aide: Okay, everybody, this is it! 
TV Anchorman: Based on exit polling, we are now projecting that M ayor Thomas Snyder has lost his bid to win 
reelection.  
The room explodes into cheers. Even Alan Shore smil es and claps while Roberta Sloane seems about to 
faint, and Jack Fleming jumps up from the couch and  raises his arms triumphantly. Only Samantha 
Fleming shows little reaction. She remains seated f or a few seconds before standing up and facing Jack  
with a terse smile. Jack notices her and after a mo ment of hesitation, they embrace. Then Jack gives 
Samantha a nod of thanks. She walks away and is met  by Alan Shore, who gives her a kiss on the 
cheek.  
Samantha Fleming: Let’s go. 
Alan Shore: He’ll want you downstairs in the ballrom basking in  the adulation. Part of the deal. 
Samantha Fleming: New deal. This is where I get off. Coming? 
TV Anchorman (in the background): But one thing we do know tonig ht. The Thomas Snyder era is coming to an 
end, and Boston’s new mayor will be Jack Fleming. S tan Forrester is standing by at the Fleming victory  party at 
the Hyatt where a very happy crowd is waiting for t he mayor-elect and his wife to make their way down to the 
ballroom. Can you hear me, Stan? 
As Alan helps Samantha with her coat, Jack spots th em from across the room and gives Alan a look of 
contempt. Alan meets his stare with one of equal co ntempt while Samantha exits with a look of 
satisfaction on her face .  
 
Paul Lewiston is in Denny Crane’s office.  
Paul Lewiston: Denny, I’m worried about you. You’re speaking Frenc h to the messangers. You got crossword 
puzzles spread out all over the conference table. Y ou walk into reception, hijack one of Sally Heep’s clients - 
actually have a meeting with him in your office! Di d you even know what his case was about? 
Denny Crane: I took that test the other day. The one where they ask you a bunch of questions to see if you’ve 
turned into an imbecile. Then they do a scan of you r brain. You know what they found out? That I have a lot of 
blue and yellow and red stuff colliding up there. T he damn M.R.I. photo looks like a hurricane. I don’ t remember 
what was the good color and what was the bad color,  but the point is this. They discovered that I reme mber 
some things, and I forget others. And that’s the wa y it’s gonna be. You wanna know what that man’s cas e is all 
about? He stuck a fork in a toaster. It’s a little pissant lawsuit. But I remember what you said the o ther day. 
Paul Lewiston: What was that? 
Denny Paul: Seriously, Paul. You have to have that test. You sa id that we weren’t filing enough class action 
suits. That we were missing out on a gold shower. 
Paul Lewiston: I -  I believe I said a money shower.  
Denny Crane: I heard the fact pattern of the Sally Heep case. I was able to persuade Mr. Shrum that there was 
a greater good to be achieved. And, long story shor t, happily, the toaster company was open to my argu ment.  
Paul Lewiston: What argument? 
Denny Crane: That an attorney like Denny Crane, with extensive c lass action experience, could easily turn Mr. 
Shrum’s case into a lucrative opportunity. On the o ther hand, if they were to give Denny Crane their o n-going 
legal business, augmenting the fine work done by th e in-house cousel, then Denny Crane would be unavai lable 
to represent Mr. Shrum, who incidentally is going t o receive $50,000 from the company as a goodwill ge sture.  
So don’t you worry too much, Paul, about Denny Cran e.  
Denny picks up a remote on his desk, and turns on t he television. Jack Fleming is giving his victory 
speech . 
Jack Fleming (on TV): And I also want to say to my wife Samantha , who unfortunately could not be here tonight 
- she’s a little under the weather - Samantha, I lo ve you, and I wish you could be right up here besid e me right 
now. (the crowd on TV applauds as Paul leaves Denny ’s office) That’s right. Sure we do. Okay. Thank yo u all. 
God bless you, Boston.  
 
Paul Lewiston meets Lori Colson as she prepares to leave her office for the day. 
Paul Lewiston: You did the right thing.  
Lori Colson: Yes, I did. I lied to him.   
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   10 
 Paul Lewiston: Lori. You realize you have exposed this firm to a p otentially enormous liability award and 
imposed on me certain excruciating ethical obligati ons? 
Lori Colson: You’ll do the right thing, too. 
 
Jazzy piano music plays as the scene pans across a gaudy neon hula dancer beside a flashing sign for 
the “Aloha Inn“. The song is “At Last”, a duet perf ormed by Lou Rawls and Dianne Reeves. The scene 
shifts to a disheveled bed, where a woman is sleepi ng. Alan Shore is sitting in a chair beside the bed , 
watching the colors from the neon light flashing on  the woman’s bare shoulder. He stands up and sits 
beside her, leaning down to kiss her shoulder. She stirs and moans softly. He kisses her cheek, and sh e 
moans again.  
Alan Shore: We should’ve done this much sooner.  
The woman turns her face to him, and it is revealed  to be Tara Wilson.  
Tara Wilson: Let’s do it again.  
They kiss, and the scene ends with another shot of the flashing neon signs.   
 
The lyrics of “At Last”, heard in this scene: 
At last …. 
My love has come along 
My lonely days are over 
And life is like a song 
 
At last  …. 
The skies above are blue 
My heart is wrapped up in clover 
The night I looked at you 
 
You, you, you smile 
And then the spell was cast. 
And here we are, we are in heaven 
For you are mine … at last.   
 