 1 Boston Legal  
Hired Guns 
Season 1, Episode 10 
Airdate:  December 19, 2004 
Written by David E. Kelley 
© 2004 David E. Kelley Productions.  All Rights Res erved 
Transcribed by Sheri for boston-legal.org [version updated June 19, 2006] 
 
The Annual Crane Poole & Schmidt Christmas Party 
Camera pans around the reception area to a man wear ing a Santa hat picking up a drink from a bar set 
up in front of the signage; to Alan Shore, complete  with a branch of mistletoe rigged to hang over his  
head, dancing with Tara Wilson; to Catherine Piper dancing with an older gentleman as: 
Denny Crane:   singing with a 3-woman back-up group behind him   “Bells will be ringing, their sad, sad 
blues.  Oh, what a Christmas to have the blues! My baby’s gone.  I have no friends, to wish me greetin gs once 
again.  Choirs will be singing Silent Night.  Chris tmas carols . . .” sees someone and leaves the group to 
finish without him 
Tara Wilson:   So, do I get my kiss or not? 
Alan Shore:   Tara, the way mistletoe works is the one standing  under it is the one to receive. 
Tara Wilson:   Well, I prefer to meet in the middle. 
Alan Shore:   Well, I do enjoy your middle tremendously, but a kiss really is more traditional.  They both lean a 
bit toward each other   Ah, the anticipation is pure . . . Sally. 
Sally Heep:   Hi.  The last thing I want to do is come between all that collagen, but, Alan, we have a little 
problem, and, like it or not, you’re probably the b est man to fix it.  Ah, this is Carmen Flores.  She  works in 
housekeeping here.  Her ex-husband kidnapped her tw o children.  This is the third Christmas he’s done so.  He 
brings them to Peru, when it’s Carmen who has legal  custody of them for the holidays. 
Tara Wilson:   Can’t you just go to the judge? 
Sally Heep:   She did that last year.  And it cost her a fortun e.  The judge held him in contempt for a day.  He 
said it’s worth it to spend Christmas with his kids  in Peru.  H—his flight leaves tomorrow night.  I—I  thought 
maybe you could think of something. 
Tara Wilson:   Didn’t you used to be a lawyer, Sally? Oh, I apol ogize.  There go my lips again.  Must be all that 
collagen. 
Alan Shore:   Ladies? Tips his head forward so the mistletoe ha ngs between them  Perhaps you tow should 
kiss in the name of Christmas. 
Sally Heep:   gasps as Lori Colson falls into her  
Lori Colson:   Oh, sorry, Sally.  Incredible dress, by the way.  Hate you.  turns to Alan Shore  Ah, Alan.  
Mistletoe.  takes his face between both hands and kisses him ha rd.  Mwah.  smiles, then whispers   
Whatever. 
 
[credits] 
 
Courtroom 
Camera pans over rather graphic pictures of 2 gunsh ot murder victims—alive and dead. 
ADA John Shubert:   She came home that evening at 9:30, catching an e arly flight to surprise her husband.  But 
it was the defendant who was surprised.  Susan May discovered her husband Ralph making love to a busin ess 
associate, Marie Holcomb—and it was more than she c ould bear.  The evidence will show that the defenda nt 
retrieved a handgun from the kitchen, returned to t he bedroom and fired six shots—three into her husba nd, 
three into Marie Holcomb.  This is the holiday seas on.  You people should be home with your families r ight 
now.  I apologize for that.  Marie Holcomb’s mother  and father fly here every December from the West C oast.  
This time, it’s to attend the trial of their daught er’s killer. Susan May destroyed a lot of happy pla ns with that 
gun. 
Brad Chase:   Get in Christmas. 
Lori Colson:   Sorry? 
Brad Chase:   Christmas is ours and Susan’s.  Don’t let him cla im it. 
Lori Colson:   I, too, would like to apologize for taking you aw ay from your families during this holiday season.  
That’s Susan’s family seated over there.  They woul d dearly love to be home with her.  She would dearl y love 
to be home with them.  Imagine, if you can as you p repare for your Christmas, having a loved one murde red.   2 Add to that the horror that the police can’t figure  out who did it.  And then, if you can possibly fat hom, imagine 
they decide to arrest you.  That’s your defendant, ladies and gentlemen.  A law-abiding, loving, faith ful 
advertising executive—an innocent woman whose whole  life was just suddenly and wrongly destroyed.  Tha t’s 
your defendant, and that’s what the evidence will s how.  
 
Alan Shore’s Office 
Carmen Flores:   I—I did report police twice.  They say domestic. 
Alan Shore:   He returned the children both times after Christm as? 
Carmen Flores:   Yes.  This why police say it is for court to deci de.  No one involved. 
Suddenly, Denny Crane enters. 
Alan Shore:   Ah, Denny.  This is Carmen Flores.  She works her e in housekeeping. 
Denny Crane:   Excellent.  Why do I care? 
Alan Shore:   Perhaps you don’t.  First off, let me say how inc redible you were last night.  The whole office is s til 
. . . stunned. 
Denny Crane:   Thank you. 
Alan Shore:   Now, on a topic far removed from you, and therefo re much less entertaining, though of some 
import to Carmen, her children have been snatched b y her ex-husband.  Who do you know at the Boston 
Police Department? 
Denny Crane:   I know everybody. 
Alan Shore:   You hear that, Carmen?  The man knows everybody. 
Carmen Flores smiles rather dubiously. 
 
Courtroom 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Her story didn’t check out.  It’s as simple as that . 
ADA John Shubert:   That story she gave you was? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  She came home, found them dead in bed. 
ADA John Shubert:   Was there evidence of anyone other than the victi ms or the defendant being in the house 
that night? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  None. 
ADA John Shubert:   And, Detective, describe for the jury if you can,  the defendant’s demeanor when you 
arrived at the scene that night. 
Detective Wayne Farley:  She seemed pretty shook up.  There was blood all ov er her.  She claimed she got 
the blood on her when she went to her husband’s sid e to see if she could revive him. 
ADA John Shubert:   And you don’t believe that? 
Lori Colson:   I’m sorry.  It seems the detective is more than w illing to give testimony against my client.  You 
don’t really need to lead him. 
Judge Phillips Stevens:   Sustained. 
ADA John Shubert:   Did you believe the defendant’s claim? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  No.  It was determined that she was standing approx imately 5 feet away when she 
fired the gun. 
Lori Colson:   I’m sorry.  I hate to be a nuisance.  But did I m iss the point where you said she fired the gun? 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Sustained. 
ADA John Shubert:   Detective, what, if anything led you to believe t hat the defendant fired the gun? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  We did a trace metal test, which revealed she held the gun and her fingerprints were 
on the gun. 
ADA John Shubert:   Hm.  Anything else? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  We know her driver dropped her off at 9:30 pm.  She  called the police at 11:07.  She 
told us she discovered the bodies soon after she en tered the house.  If so, why did she wait an hour a nd a half 
to call the police? As I said, her story just didn’ t add up. 
Brad Chase:   Seems from your tone, Detective, you consider thi s, ah, kind of a no-brainer.  
Detective Wayne Farley:  We applied all our mental faculties just the same a nd concluded your client 
committed the crime. 
Brad Chase:   Oh, you concluded pretty quickly, I might add.  Y ou placed her under arrest the next day.  By the 
way, was the spatter analysis done in a day? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  No.  That came in later. 
Brad Chase:   I see.  So when you placed Susan May under arrest , you were going on . . .  3 Detective Wayne Farley:  Her fingerprints were on the gun, for starters. 
Brad Chase:   It was her gun, was it not? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  The fingerprints were fresh. 
Brad Chase:   Got there, perhaps, when she picked the gun up af ter? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  We also had motive, her evasive demeanor. 
Brad Chase:   She called the police, did she not? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Yes, but she wasn’t truthful. 
Brad Chase:   Wasn’t truthful when she said she didn’t shoot th em? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  That, and she obviously wasn’t truthful about calli ng the police immediately after 
finding the bodies. 
Brad Chase:   You had her examined by a psychiatrist that night ? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Yes. 
Brad Chase:   The psychiatrist said she was in shock? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Yes. 
Brad Chase:   Possible the shock of discovering her murdered hu sband caused the delay in calling the police? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  I doubt that’s what happened. 
Brad Chase:   This doubt is based on your psychiatric training.  
Detective Wayne Farley:  It’s based on 30 years of experience as a homicide detective. 
Brad Chase:   Thirty years as a homicide detective told you tha t the delay in calling the police could not have 
been caused by shock?  picks up a large photograph mounted on a board   Let’s turn back to the blood 
spatter evidence.  This is the blouse my client was  wearing that evening, is it not? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Yes. 
Brad Chase:   Lot of blood.  That’s all spattering? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Most of that blood came from handling the bodies. 
Brad Chase:   So where’s the spatter you spoke of, Detective? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  There are two elongated markings on the left should er.   
Brad Chase:   Right here?  These tiny marks here? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Yes. 
Brad Chase:   She supposedly fired six shots.  There’s only two  tiny marks? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  The other marks are likely covered up with the bloo d from when she handled the 
bodies. 
Brad Chase:   Did you analyze these marks yourself, Detective? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  I did. 
Brad Chase:   Are you the person in the Boston Police Departmen t who does this? 
Detective Wayne Farley:   Well, there are others, obviously, but I started in the lab, so I’m trained as well. 
Brad Chase:   Was there anyone else in the lab who analyzed thi s shirt? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Yes.  We have a junior member . . . 
Brad Chase:   Junior member? It’s a high-profile case.  It went  to a junior member? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  As I said, I analyzed the clothes with my 30 years . . . 
Brad Chase:   Thirty years in the lab? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  No. 
Brad Chase:   How many years in the lab? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Five. 
Brad Chase:   How ‘bout the junior member? How many years did h e have? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  I’m not sure 
Brad Chase:   More than five? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  I believe so. 
Brad Chase:   Just out of curiosity, what was his finding? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Inconclusive. 
Brad Chase:   He could not determine that my client fired a gun ? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Nor could he rule it out. 
Brad Chase:   He could not determine that my client fired a gun . 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Correct.  But I determined she did. 
Brad Chase:   You trace-metalled my client.  Did you test for p owder residue on her hand? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  Yes.  She tested negative. 
Brad Chase:   Gee, how could that be?  4 Detective Wayne Farley:  We determined that she likely wore gloves when she fired the gun. 
Brad Chase:   So she was careful to wear gloves when she shot t hem, then afterwards, she took the gloves off 
and handled the gun? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  If she went into shock, as you say, she probably ma de a mistake.  Murderers often 
do. 
Brad Chase:   So for the purpose of explaining the delay in cal ling the police, you don’t buy shock.  but to 
explain why she picked up the murder weapon barehan ded after firing with gloves, you do buy shock; in fact, 
you seem to be selling it. 
ADA John Shubert:   Objection. 
Brad Chase:   Withdrawn.  Did you find the gloves? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  No. 
Brad Chase:   You searched the entire house? I’m asking.  I don ’t want to presume. 
Detective Wayne Farley:  We searched the house.  We did not find the gloves.  
Brad Chase:   Any evidence of her leaving the house after she c ame home that night? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  No. 
Brad Chase:   Any unsolved burglaries in this neighborhood in t he last year? 
Detective Wayne Farley:  A couple. 
 
Courthouse Conference Room 
Susan May:   That went well, right? 
Lori Colson:   Mm, hmm.  It went extremely well.  The problem, S usan, as we’ve explained—the burden of proof 
is really on us. 
Susan May:   I still don’t understand that, as much as you kee p saying it. 
Lori Colson:   When you have the scorned wife being the only one  there, her fresh fingerprints on the gun . . . 
Brad Chase:   Trust me.  We’ll argue burglar.  But with no sing  of a break-in . . . 
Susan May:   So my chances are the same. 
Lori Colson:   No.  We did very well with the witness today.  Ou r chances just got a little bit better.  But if we just 
. . . we stick to the plan.  We’d like you to meet with Dr. Waylon one more time. 
Susan May:   Why? 
Lori Colson:   In case we need to call him, we want to be ready.  
Susan May:   I’m not really comfortable being treated like som e patient. 
Brad Chase:   Susan, you put your life in our hands, did you no t? You need to let us do what we do. 
Susan May:   Can I ask you something? I’m not sure why I want to ask this now, but, do you believe me? 
Lori Colson:   I don’t know.  I certainly want to believe you, b ut when I look at the evidence . . . 
Susan May:   I at least appreciate your candor. 
Lori Colson:   The question the jury’s going to be asking:  if n ot you, then who? And we’ve got no answer for 
that. 
 
Courtroom 
Dr. Lee Chang:   The fatal wounds for both victims were to the hea d.  Death was instantaneous. 
ADA John Shubert:   And, Doctor, were you able to determine the time of death? 
Dr. Lee Chang:   Between 9:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
Lori Colson:   Doctor, did you examine the stomach contents of t he victims? 
Dr. Lee Chang:   Yes 
Lori Colson:   What did you find? 
Dr. Lee Chang:   They were both relatively full. 
Lori Colson:   After eating, how long does food stay in the stom ach before emptying into the small intestine? 
Dr. Lee Chang:   Generally, one to two hours. 
Lori Colson:   So if the victims finished dining by 7:30 as repo rted those stomachs should have been empty.  
Unless they were killed before 9:30, correct? 
Dr. Lee Chang:   Or unless they ate again after leaving the restau rant. 
Lori Colson:   Were there any signs, to your knowledge, that the y’d eaten at home? Dirty dishes? Recent 
garbage? 
Dr. Lee Chang:   To my knowledge, there was no evidence of that. 
Lori Colson:   Thank you.  5 ADA John Shubert:   But they could have stopped on their way home fro m the restaurant—had dessert or 
something? 
Dr. Lee Chang:   Well, not a medical question, but yes, possible. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   You may step down, sir.  Mr. Shubert? 
ADA John Shubert:   The prosecution rests, your Honor. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Miss Colson. 
Lori Colson:   whispering to Brad Chase   Let’s let them see some serious thinking going on .  What’s your take 
on free agency? 
Brad Chase:  It’s killing baseball. 
Lori Colson:   Hockey? 
Brad Chase:   No salary cap, no hockey. 
Lori Colson:   Soccer 
Brad Chase:   Nobody cares. 
Lori Colson:   arises   Your Honor, the defense calls Susan May. 
 
Conference Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Officer Davis:  It’s just that we regard it more as a domestic cust ody dispute.  Her recourse would be with 
probate. 
Alan Shore:   Well, there’s where we’re wrong, Denny.  I though t if you were to physically and unlawfully grab 
somebody and haul them off to a foreign country, it  would be a crime. 
Denny Crane:   Well, I’ll be damned. 
Alan Shore:   So, we’re wrong then.  By the way, does one need to be related to the victim to escape charges? 
There’s this Junior Mint I’ve had my eye on.  I tho ught I might borrow her for a long weekend.  Perhap s the 
Bahamas. 
Officer Michaels:   As we understand it, the father always brings the  kids back. 
Alan Shore:   That’s what I’d do.  Be a joyride. 
Denny Crane:   We’re wasting time here, and you two look like go od men.  Department’s full of good men.  
That’s why Denny Crane and this firm invest so much  money in your annual ball.  So, you’ll arrest the husband 
because, A—Denny Crane wants you to, and B . . . 
Alan Shore:   I play poker with some reporters, one in particul ar who’d be curious as to why ethnic child 
snatchings don’t get your attention.  And, C . . . 
Denny Crane:   The children were kidnapped.  And D . . . 
Alan Shore:   You’re officially on notice. 
Officers Davis and Michaels exit. 
Alan Shore:   You’re good when you get testy. 
Denny Crane:   Came easy today.  My balls hurt. 
Alan Shore:   Let’s have that be the one and only time you tell  me that. 
 
Courtroom 
Susan May:   I was hurrying home because, well, I had been awa y for about a week and I was excited to see 
him. 
Lori Colson:   And when you got home? 
Susan May:   I pulled into the garage, went into the kitchen, called out his name.  His car was there, so I was 
sure he was home.  It was only about 9:30.  I could n’t imagine him being in bed.  But . . . he was. 
Lori Colson:   And not alone. 
Susan May:   No. 
Lori Colson:   What happened, Susan? 
Susan May:   I started upstairs.  I called out his name again.   Still no response.  Then I went to the bedroom, 
looked in, a—and I saw it. 
Lori Colson:   Saw what? 
Susan May:   At first, just blood.  And then I saw one body, a nd then another. 
Lori Colson:   What did you do? 
Susan May:   I first screamed.  I—I looked at my husband and .  . . his eyes were open, and there was a hole in 
his temple.  And I—I went to him to see if he was s till breathing. 
Lori Colson:   Was he? 
Susan May:   No.  6 Lori Colson:   What happened next? 
Susan May:   I don’t know. 
Lori Colson:   You don’t know? 
Susan May:   sighs   I remember talking to the police at some point.  I remember—I—them taking Ralph away.  
But . . . 
Lori Colson:  Do you remember calling the police? 
Susan May:  No. 
Lori Colson:   Do you remember touching the gun? 
Susan May:  No. 
Lori Colson:   Seeing the gun? 
Susan May:  No. 
Lori Colson nods, returns to the defense table. 
ADA John Shubert:   That’s a really convenient memory loss, don’t you  think? You recall not doing it, finding the 
bodies dead.  But as for your fingerprints on the m urder weapon, why you gave the police false informa tion 
after, delaying in calling the police . . . Gee . .  . just can’t remember. 
Lori Colson:   Objection. 
ADA John Shubert:   What a perfect way to tell your story without rea lly being subject to cross-examination.  
Was this amnesia your idea, or was it your attorney s’? 
Lori Colson & Brad Chase:   arising; in unison   Objection. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Sustained. 
ADA John Shubert:   Nothing further. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   The witness may step down. 
Brad:   The defense calls Dr. Herbert Waylon. 
ADA John Shubert:   Approach? 
Judge Phillip Stevens motions for all attorneys to approach the bench, which they do. 
ADA John Shubert:   This witness is not on their list. 
Brad Chase:   He’s on the rebuttal list. 
ADA John Shubert:   What’s he being called to rebut? 
Brad Chase:   You just accused my client of faking her memory l oss. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Short leash, counsel. Step back. 
Lori Colson:   Dr. Herbert Waylon.  quietly to Brad Chase   Come here.  Just get up and down. 
Brad Chase:   Sorry? 
Lori Colson:   You don’t need to ask the $64,000 Question. 
Brad Chase:   Because? 
Lori Colson:   He will; and then he can’t object to it. 
 
Courtroom 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:  It’s basically a form of post-traumatic amnesia.  S he saw her husband murdered, and it 
triggered a blackout. 
Brad Chase:   She blacked out for an hour. 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:  In terms of memory.  She wasn’t unconscious.  She c ould’ve been sitting in a catatonic 
state.  She possibly even watched television. 
Brad Chase:   The prosecution thinks that her memory loss was .  . . convenient. 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:  Well, I personally examined this woman the day afte r the murders.  She was suffering 
from dissociative amnesia then, as I believe she is  now. 
Brad Chase:   Thank you, Doctor.  He’s your witness.  walks to the defense table as ADA John Shubert 
arises to question the witness   I hope you’re right. 
ADA John Shubert:   You can’t state to a medical certainty that the d efendant suffered from post-traumatic 
amnesia, can you? 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:  To a medical certainty, no. 
ADA John Shubert:   And you can’t medically rule out the possibility that the defendant pulled the trigger that 
night, can you, Doctor? 
Lori Colson:   Bingo. 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:   No, I cannot rule it out.  In fact, while I happe n to believe her version of the events, I make 
room for a completely different scenario. 
ADA John Shubert:   Which is?  7 Dr. Herbert Waylon:  Well, it’s possible she looked into this bedroom, s aw her husband making love to another 
woman, and that threw her into a dissociative state.  And in that state, she shot them. 
ADA John Shubert:   I’m sorry, are . . . you’re now saying maybe she killed them? 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:  Well, I believe she found them dead as she says.  B ut it’s possible that she saw them 
making love, went into a dissociative state—somethi ng we refer to medically as automatism—and in that state, 
she may have killed them.  Then her brain creates a  false memory of something less horrifying to her. 
ADA John Shubert:   I have nothing further. 
Brad Chase:   Her brain created a false memory? 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:  Yes.  Sometimes, if a person’s actions are repugnan t to them, they can actually create a 
false version that is more psychologically acceptab le. 
Brad Chase:   And they believe this as the truth? 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:  Absolutely. 
Brad Chase:   So it’s possible that she committed the murders? 
Dr. Herbert Waylon:  No.  Murder suggests an intent she would’ve been in capable of.  If she did this—and I’m 
not saying that she did—she would’ve likely lost al l conscious control.  She would’ve acted outside he rself.  
And as a defense, her brain would have manufactured  this other memory, that she walked in and found th em 
already dead. 
ADA John Shubert:   Your Honor.  Chambers. 
 
Judge Phillip Stevens’ Chambers 
ADA John Shubert:   They just . . . they just backdoored insanity.  T hat’s an affirmative defense.  They did not 
plead it. 
Brad Chase:   We’re not arguing it. 
ADA John Shubert:   The witness just testified she lost all conscious  control. 
Brad Chase:   That witness was simply called to rehabilitate.  You’re the one who impeached my client’s 
truthfulness.  You said she was feigning her memory  loss. 
ADA John Shubert:   You went beyond my cross.  Your Honor, this is a ploy.  They’re trying to sneak in 
alternative defenses.  A—She didn’t do it.  And B—i f she did do it, she was insane. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   pointing to Brad Chase with a pencil   Did you coach the witness to get in insanity? 
Brad Chase:   I called a witness to rehabilitate, to support he r claim of memory loss. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Knowing full well he believed the possibility tha t she committed the murders while in a 
dissociative state. 
Brad Chase:   I did not elicit that testimony; he did. 
Lori Colson:   Your Honor, if we wanted to argue insanity, we si mply could have pled it. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Except you don’t want to argue it, counsel.  You want to argue not guilty and have 
insanity as a fallback.  Two defenses for the price  of one. 
Lori Colson:   I’m sure you’ll properly instruct against insanit y. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Yes.  And I’m sure the jury will listen. 
ADA John Shubert:   I move for an immediate mistrial. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Mr. Shubert, you opened the door on all this with  your cross. 
ADA John Shubert:   Which was their plan. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   Maybe so.  But you did the damage.  I’ll give you  time to call your own experts, but the 
case goes on.  Mr. Chase, Miss Colson.  I keep scor ecards of all the lawyers who appear before me. 
 
Alan Shore’s  Office 
Tara Wilson:   Now you’re being desperate. 
Alan Shore:   standing under a very large swag of mistletoe hangi ng from the ceiling next to the desk  
Too much? 
Tara Wilson:   Just a bit.  I never figured you to place quite s uch a premium on a kiss. 
Alan Shore:   A kiss is the promise of what’s to come, Tara.  A  kiss is . . . deep breath in . . . the Christmas Eve 
of sex. 
Tara Wilson:   leaning close enough to tease but too far for the p ay-off   I actually favor the Christmas Eve . 
. . circling to stand behind him and whisper in his ear  . . . Christmas Eve. 
Alan Shore:   I’m sorry?  8 Tara Wilson:   continuing the circle back to face him   It’s not the part where the lips actually touch; it’s the 
part just before that . . . when they’re so close.  When you know it’s about to happen.  You can almos t feel it, 
taste it—I like that bit to last forever.  Don’t yo u just love to make it last forever? her lips barely touch his  
Alan Shore:   No.  about ready to consummate this kiss when:  
Nora Jacobs:   Mr. Shore? I’m sorry.  There’s a man here.  I’m s orry. 
She has significantly spoiled the mood for Alan Sho re and Tara Wilson. 
Nora Jacobs:  He says he’s delivering gifts for you and Mr. Crane .  And he says it’s urgent.  Mr. Crane is out of 
the office. 
Alan Shore:   Gifts? 
Nora Jacobs:   Mmm, hmm. 
Alan Shore escorts Nora Jacobs out the door and int o: 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore:   May I help you? 
Julio Flores:   carrying gifts  Are you Alan Shore? 
Alan Shore:   Not if you’re a process server. 
Julio Flores drops the presents and pulls out a gun , which he holds on Alan Shore.  Everyone gasps. 
Julio Flores:   Shut up! You shut up! Somebody shut down the elev ators! If I hear them go ding, I’m gonna 
shoot this man in the head! 
Alan Shore:   Sir, I must tell you the last time somebody point ed a gun at me, they shot me, and it hurt—terribly.  
Julio Flores:   You think this is a joke? You got me arrested! Yo u got my kids taken away! My kids are all I’ve 
got. 
Alan Shore:   Well, it seems you have a gun.  Perhaps if you tr ade the gun . . .   
Julio Flores shoots up at the ceiling, and everyone  screams. 
Alan Shore:   All right.  This is between you and me.  You have  a hostage.  raises his voice   Everybody else, 
pick a door and get behind it now.  Let’s clear the  floor. 
Julio Flores:   Kill the elevators! Kill the phones! 
Alan Shore:   Everybody go into an office.  Close the door.  No w. 
Man:   Let’s do what he says. 
Woman #1:   Come on.  Hurry.   
Tara Wilson lags, looks very concerned about leavin g Alan Shore with Flores. 
Woman #2:   Come on.  Come on! 
Alan Shore:   Okay, Mr. Flores, let’s talk. 
 
Same scene continued, after commercial break. 
Julio Flores:   Christmas is family.  I go to Peru to be with fam ily.  My kids are part of that. 
Alan Shore:   I understand, sir.  It’s not what the “No Child L eft Behind Act” had in mind . . . 
Julio Flores:   I’m going to kill you. 
Alan Shore:   I’d prefer you didn’t. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Tara Wilson:   talking on her cell phone   His name is Julio.  We believe his last name is F lores.  pause   Yes, 
he’s already fired a round, so the gun is clearly l oaded. 
Sally Heep:  talking on cell phone in background   Fourteenth floor.  That’s right.  Thank you. 
Tara Wilson:   Yes, you can call me.  (617) 555-0197. 
Alan Shore:   You’re here because of your children.  So, I’ll a sk you to think about your children.  If you go to 
prison, they lose their father. 
Julio Flores:  With an arrest, I’m going to lose all custody.  The y already lost their father. 
 
Courtroom 
Brad Chase:   The first forensic specialist to analyze the bloo d spatter pattern, said they were inconclusive.  
This is a police expert, by the way.  He said the s patters could not prove that she fired a gun. 
 
Street Outside of the Crane Poole & Schmidt Buildin g 
A large Boston Police Dept. van pulls up to the cur b, sirens wailing. 
Brad Chase (VO):   He’s asking you to believe . . .  9 Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Close-up of Julio Flores’ gun 
Brad Chase (VO):   . . . that she wore gloves to commit the crime to  explain the lack of powder residue on her 
hands. 
 
Courtroom 
Brad Chase:   Then she took the gloves off to handle the murder  weapon. 
 
Street Outside of the Crane Poole & Schmidt Buildin g 
The back door of the van slides up, and SWAT squad members file out of the van. 
Brad Chase (VO):   Is it possible there was a burglar? 
 
Courtroom 
Brad Chase:   The prosecution certainly can’t eliminate the ide a.  And, yes, it’s possible that Susan May, seeing 
her husband making love with another woman, went in to a dissociative state, acted outside of her consc ious 
control. 
 
Street Outside of the Crane Poole & Schmidt Buildin g 
The SWAT Team enters the building, guns at ready, a nd go up the stairs, ready to capture the gunman. 
Brad Chase (VO):   But it doesn’t really matter whether she pulled t hat trigger or not . . . 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Close-up of Julio Flores’ gun, and the faces of Jul io Flores and Alan Shore. 
 
Back Stairwell of the Crane Poole & Schmidt Buildin g 
The SWAT Team, guns at ready, continue up the stair s. 
Brad Chase (VO):   Because she formed no legal mental intent to do s o . . . 
 
Courtroom 
Brad Chase:   . . . which is an element of the crime. 
 
Back Stairwell of the Crane Poole & Schmidt Buildin g 
The SWAT Team, guns at ready, continues up the stai rs. 
Brad Chase (VO):   Reasonable doubt as to whether or not she did it.  
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore is checking his watch, looking very anxi ous, with the gun trained on him. 
Brad Chase (VO):   No evidence of intent, even if she did. 
 
Courtroom 
Brad Chase:   All leads to the same verdict.  Not guilty. 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore:   It’s been almost 30 minutes  sirens wailing in the background   You have to know the building is 
surrounded by now.  The police are probably on ever y floor. 
Julio Flores:   I don’t care.  My life has ended anyway. 
 
Courtroom 
ADA John Shubert:   No evidence of anyone else being there but the de fendant.  Time of death:  9:45—fifteen 
minutes after she arrived home.  And as to why the defendant waited a full hour and a half before call ing the 
police . . . Oh, yes! The dissociative state.  That ’s handy. 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore:   However upset you may be, sir, you must realize t hat what you are doing is insane. 
 
  10  Courtroom 
ADA John Shubert:   I wonder why they didn’t plead insanity.  Because  there was no powder residue on her 
hands? How to explain insanity, yet have presence o f mind to wear gloves? That’s a tough one.  These a re 
very good lawyers. 
Julio Flores (VO):   You think you’re such a great lawyer? 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Julio Flores:   You feel like a great lawyer now, Mr. Shore? Huh?  
The whirr of helicopter blades can be heard in the background. 
Alan Shore:   I feel like a busy one.  So, if you’re going to s hoot me, let’s do it.  I have plans. 
Julio Flores points the gun and shoots. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Sally Heep:   coming around the desk   What happened? 
Tara Wilson:   kneeling on the couch and peering out the window ar ound drawn drapery   I don’t know.  I 
can’t see. 
In the Hallway, Alan Shore is slowly back toward De nny Crane’s office, Julio Flores following, gun 
pointed at Alan Shore. 
Tara Wilson:   Okay.  I see Alan.  He’s all right. 
Negotiator:  Sir, the phone is going to ring.  I want you to pic k it up, and we want you to talk to us. 
Julio Flores:   No. 
Denny Crane:   walking into his office from the balcony   See all the police outside? We must have a jumper .  
I hope it isn’t Paul. 
Tara Wilson:   Denny .  Do you know what’s going on? 
Denny Crane:   Why are you women in my office? 
Sally Heep:   You really don’t realize what’s happening? 
Negotiator (background):   The building is surrounded, sir.  There’s nowhere  for you to go. 
Denny Crane:   I think I do.  Let’s take off our clothes. 
Sally Heep:   A man has a gun trained on Alan Shore out there.  That’s why the police are here. 
Negotiator (background):   You won’t get hurt, sir. 
Denny Crane:   Out there? 
Sally Heep:   He’s threatening to kill him. 
Negotiator (background):   Calm down, sir. 
Denny Crane:   angry,  stomping toward his desk   Why didn’t anybody come and get me?!  pulls gun parts 
out of his credenza   All right, then. 
Tara Wilson:   Are you mad? 
Sally Heep:   Mr. Crane, I really don’t think that’s a good ide a. 
Denny Crane:   assembling a rifle as he speaks   It’s a fantastic idea.   
Tara Wilson:   Denny, the police are already here. 
Denny Crane:   Yes, I can see they’ve got everything under contr ol. 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Negotiator (in the stairwell):   Sir, we just want to have a conversation. 
Julio Flores:   If that phone even rings, I’ll shoot! Do you hear  me? 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Denny Crane:   Tara, when I say open, you open that door. 
Tara Wilson:   I certainly will not! 
Denny Crane:   I’m an ex-Marine! I was a trained sniper.  Or was  it a pilot? 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Negotiator (in the stairwell):   Mr. Flores? 
Julio Flores:   Don’t use my name! 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Tara Wilson:   Put that gun down.  You’ll get everybody killed.  11  Denny Crane walks to the door, rifle assembled and in hand. 
Negotiator (background):   Sir, you need to let your hostage go. 
Julio Flores (background):   No! 
Negotiator (background):   We want to negotiate. 
Denny Crane:   opening the door a crack   That’s Alan out there!  pulls a chair into position so he can aim 
from chair, through doorway, to Julio Flores   I’m mainly a skeet shooter now.  So, when I yell,  Pull,” that’ll 
be your cue to yank open the door. 
Tara Wilson:   You are mad. 
Sally Heep:   Don’t be ridiculous. 
Negotiator:   Pick up the phone. 
Alan Shore is terrified. 
Julio Flores:   Don’t make it ring! I’m warning you.  I’ll shoot.   Do you hear me? 
Phone rings. 
Denny Crane:   Pull. 
Tara Wilson pulls the door open, clearing the way f or Denny Crane to shoot Julio Flores.  Alan Shore 
gasps, and everyone else screams. 
Various SWAT Members:   Move it! Got one down. Got him.  Get that one’s w eapon.  Sergeant, keep 
everybody away.  Is it clear? 
Denny Crane:   swaggering out of his office, gun in the crook of h is elbow, to stand next to Alan Shore   
Denny Crane. 
Alan Shore, greatly relieved, slumps a little.  Den ny Crane reaches out, gives him a firm side-to-side  
hug. 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Julio Flores, gunshot wound to his left shoulder, i s strapped to a gurney.  
Sally Heep:  Is he—is he gonna live? 
Paramedic:   Took a hit to the shoulder.  He’ll be fine. 
Denny Crane:   Oh, gosh, um, Tom DeLay—he’s a friend of mine.  H e advised me to keep a rifle in the office. 
Detective Smiley:   My question is:  Did it appear the suspect was ab out to shoot Mr. Shore when you decided 
to take him out? 
Denny Crane:   No.  Why the hell would I wait for that? 
 
Alan Shore’s Office 
Alan Shore takes a generous swallow of some clear l iquid, sighs. 
Tara Wilson:   Can I get you some more water? 
Alan Shore:   Please.  It’s vodka. 
Tara Wilson:   You’re still shaking. 
Alan Shore:   I thought that was it.  takes another swallow   The way I’ve lived my life.  I’ve always believed  
homicide is what God has planned for me. 
Tara Wilson:   It’s nice to know you believe in God. 
Alan Shore:   Well, it’s a law now in this country, isn’t it?  raises his glass, takes  another swallow, then sighs  
Tara Wilson:   I love you.  Alan just stares at her, speechless   I don’t want to marry you.  I’m not even sure I 
want to date you.  But I love you.  And for your in formation, since you love me as well, this is the p oint where 
the boy utters something poetically romantic like, “Me, too.” Or perhaps something a little less on th e nose like, 
“You smell good.” 
Alan Shore:   Are you trying to defuse my trauma, because if so  . . . 
Tara Wilson:   No.  I nearly died once, and I remember thinking at the time of those who would grieve.  And I 
wondered whether or not I was loved.  You are.  Mor e vodka? 
Alan Shore:   Please. 
Tara Wilson takes the empty glass gently from his h and, pours more vodka for him, and then gives the 
glass to him.  She gently strokes his shoulder with  a finger, then sits on the desk in front of him. 
Alan Shore:   You smell good.  And he finally gets that kiss.  
 
Courtroom 
Clerk takes a document from Madam Foreperson, deliv ers it to Judge Phillip Stevens.  Judge Phillip 
Stevens unfolds it, reads it, refolds it and hands it back to the Clerk.  12  Judge Phillip Stevens:   The defendant will please rise.  Madam Foreperson , the jury has reached a unanimous 
verdict? 
Madam Foreperson:   We have, your Honor. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   What say you? 
Madam Foreperson:   On the charges of murder in the first degree, we find the defendant, Susan May, not 
guilty. 
Murmurs from the gallery. 
Madam Foreperson:   One the charges of murder in the second degree, w e find the defendant, Susan May, not 
guilty. 
Susan May:   Oh, my God. 
Judge Phillip Stevens:   The jury is dismissed with the thanks of the cour t.  We’re adjourned.  bangs gavel 
Susan May:   shaking Brad Chase’s hand   Thank you. 
 
Courthouse Hallway 
Filled with reporters and photographers, all talkin g at once.  They flock to Susan May, Lori Colson, a nd 
Brad Chase, who seek refuge in: 
 
Courthouse Conference Room 
Susan May:   sighs   I don’t know what to say to you.  You’ve given me  my life back. 
Lori Colson:   The doctors say you’ve still got a lot of healing  ahead of you, Susan.  Let your family take care of  
you. 
Susan May:   Um, that theory Dr. Waylon had—that my brain is t ricking me, making me believe that I found 
them dead when I really . . . Does he believe that?  
Lori Colson:   He thinks it’s possible. 
Susan May:   The brain can do that? 
Lori Colson nods. 
Susan May:   So how do I know? 
 
Balcony Scene 
It is snowing on the balcony, so Alan Shore and Den ny Crane are listening to “Have Yourself a Merry 
Little Christmas,” drinking Scotch, and smoking cig ars in Denny Crane’s Office, watching the snow. 
Alan Shore:   Remember when we went skeet shooting together? 
Denny Crane:   I do. 
Alan Shore:   I barely remember you hitting a single skeet. 
Denny Crane:   I’m a game player. 
Alan Shore:   This afternoon, did you consider that you might h it me? 
Denny Crane:   I did.  It’s a good feeling, you know, to shoot a  bad guy. 
Alan Shore:   Really? 
Denny Crane:   Something you Democrats would never understand.  Americans—we’re homesteaders.  We 
want a safe home, keep the money we make, and shoot  bad guys.  And save the life of someone you love. 
Alan Shore looks at him, surprised at that revelati on. 
Denny Crane:   Wow.  Big day.  Even for Denny Crane. 
Alan Shore:   I consider myself many things, Denny, but being l oved has never been one of them.  And now 
twice in the same day. 
Denny Crane:   And the Red Sox won a World Series. 
Alan Shore:   And the Red Sox won a World Series.  You know, Ta ra told me that once she almost died, and 
she thought of those who loved her.  But I found in  that moment, it wasn’t who loved me, but rather wh o I 
loved.  You know whose face I saw, Denny? 
Denny Crane:   Mine. 
Alan Shore:   Liza Minelli’s. 
Denny Crane:   snort laugh   Crazy son of a bitch. 
Alan Shore:   Merry Christmas, my friend. 
Denny Crane:   Well, I’d say Happy New Year, but . . . 
Alan Shore:   Next year couldn’t possibly be this good. 
They click their Scotch glasses together. 