 1 Boston Legal 
Til We Meat Again 
Season 1, Episode 14 
Written by David E. Kelley 
© 2005 David E. Kelley Productions. All Rights Rese rved. 
Broadcast: February 13, 2005 
Transcribed by Imamess of JSMP for JSMP and Boston- Legal.org 
 
In a pub, Alan Shore and Tara Wilson are seated at a small table having drinks. 
Alan Shore: When a man turns 40, he begins to take measure of h imself. I must admit I don't like 
what I see. 
Tara Wilson: You're turning 43. 
Alan Shore: If you don’t mind, I’m trying to appear vulnerable to facilitate my snorkeling up your 
thighbone later. 
Tara Wilson: Alan? You boyfriend. Me girlfriend. You have a seas on’s pass. 
Alan Shore: You’re ruining the conquest part, which is all it’s  really about for me. 
Tara Wilson: Really? Well, how about a little playacting then? 
Alan Shore: Only this time I get to be the sheep. 
Tara Wilson: I’m gonna sit over there and pretend to be alone. 
Alan Shore: Oh ha ha ha. Come on. 
Tara Wilson: You’re gonna approach me, being the stranger that y ou are, and conquest me. 
Alan Shore: Oh, don’t be silly. 
Tara Wilson: No. I’d like to see how you operate. Mr Shore. She walks over to the bar.  
Joe: He notices her and comes over. How you doin? 
Tara Wilson: Fine, thank you. 
Joe: I’m Joe. 
Tara Wilson: I’m with somebody. 
Joe: Who? 
Alan Shore: He comes up.  Hello. I’m a complete stranger and I’m here to pick  you up. He looks at 
Joe. Oh! I see! There’s two of us.  He prepares to toss a coin. I’ll be evens, you’ll be odds. 
Joe: You got a problem? 
Alan Shore: No, actually. I just saw this fair maiden here talk ing to a tree trunk, and since I’m an 
arborist I thought I could help translate. 
Joe: Here’s a health tip. Walk away. 
Alan Shore: Why would I do that? 
Tara Wilson: All right, guys. 
Alan Shore: Don’t be deceived by my cushy appearance. 
Tara Wilson: Excuse me. I actually am with him. 
Joe: I don’t care. Walk away or I lay you out. 
Alan Shore: I don’t mean to be a stickler, but isn’t the object  to lay her out?  
With his fist Joe hits Alan on the chin. 
Tara Wilson: Hey! 
Alan Shore: Oh gee, I’m sorry. I was reaching for my wallet. 
Alan Shore: I see. Allow me to reach for mine. He walks away.  
Tara Wilson: She follows him.  Are you all right? 
Alan Shore: Fine. He walks up to group of strong-looking men and pull s out his wallet. Hello big 
people. Sorry to intrude. To the tallest. But you seem rather strapping. Here’s $300.00 could  you be 
so kind as to go hit that man down there. 
Mike: Really? 
Tara Wilson: Alan! 
Alan Shore: There’s an extra hundred if he goes down. 
Mike: You’re on. He takes Alan’s money and walks away. 
Alan Shore: Make it a good one! 
Tara Wilson: Oh, for God sakes. 
Mike walks over to Joe, turns him around and hits h im in the face. He raises his arms in 
celebration. Joe turns Mike around and hits him. Mi ke goes down. 
Alan Shore:  To Edwards.  Here’s a hundred, go help your friend. Mike is back up and going at it 
with Joe. Edwards joins in and hits Joe who goes do wn. His friends join in. Gee. Seems Joe  2 has buddies. Alan hands out bills to the rest of the group and t hey join in.  One for you. One for 
you. I got plenty of em. Hit em hard now. You. And for you. It’s an all out brawl! 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Alan and Tara are walk ing down the corridor.  
Tara Wilson: You don’t think the evening was slightly symptomati c of something? You take me to a 
college frat bar and you start a fight. 
Alan Shore: I did not start it. 
Tara Wilson: You certainly did start it. 
Catherine Piper: She comes up.  Alan? Wonderful news. The Kerwin deposition has bee n canceled. 
You don’t have to go. Your morning is now free. Whi ch works out, because it seems these two police 
officers are here to arrest you. 
Officer Jackson: Are you Alan Shore? 
Catherine Piper: My, aren’t you clever! I bet you make detective one  day. Was my calling him, Alan, a 
clue? 
Officer Jackson: Please place your hands behind your back. 
Alan Shore: Why? 
Officer Jackson: Sir, please. You’re under arrest for conspiracy to commit assault and battery. You 
have the right to remain silent. 
Catherine Piper: You have it all memorized! Aren’t you the spiffy ji ffy. And a sharp dresser. 
Officer Jackson: You have the right to an attorney. If you cannot af ford an attorney, one will be 
appointed for you. 
Catherine Piper: Not to worry dear. I’ll cancel the rest of your day . 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Denny Crane’s offic e, he, Shirley Schmidt and a client, 
Dominick Ryan, are watching the news on Television.  
TV Announcer:  …and in an unprecedented, if not bizarre move the selectmen of Summersport, 
Massachusetts, a small south shore town, population  of 18,000, voted 6 to 2 yesterday, to ban read 
meat. As of midnight, it is now illegal to serve or  sell beef within the township. Mayor George 
Bostwick, calling the law, a Health and Safety Regu lation. 
Dominick Ryan: Gawd… Health and Safety!? 
Shirley Schmidt: Did they not call a town meeting to discuss this? 
Dominick Ryan: Well they did, and nobody really took it that serio usly. But the mayor controls the 
selectmen, and this is exactly the publicity he’s h oping to buy. In the meantime, my steakhouse is out  
of business. 
Denny Crane: How can you ban read meat? 
Dominick Ryan: Well, they got a whole campaign. They’re gonna go w ith it. They plan to promote 
Summersport as the Seafood Capital of the world! 
Denny Crane: We’re carnivores. When the pilgrims landed, the fir st thing they did was eat a few 
Indians. 
Dominick Ryan: Is there anything we can do? 
Shirley Schmidt: We’ll get an immediate TRO. 
Denny Crane: I’ll argue it myself. Ban read meat! That cannot pa ss constitutional mustard. 
Shirley Schmidt: The word is muster, Denny, but, you’re right the la w lacks condiments. Let’s mark up 
a motion and get going, and let’s do it in Suffolk.  We should contact the owners of the other affected  
restaurants and have them join us. 
 
In Judge Jamie Atkinson’s courtroom. 
Clerk: Three, two, seven, four, four. Commonwealth versus  Alan Shore. Conspiracy to commit 
battery. 
Alan is brought in and he joins Tara at her table. 
Tara Wilson: Tara Wilson, for the defendant Your Honor, we’ll wa ive reading. I shouldn’t think there‘ll 
be any question of bail. 
Judge Jamie Atkinson: What have we got here? 
D.A. Casey Mathias: He paid some guys in a bar to assault another guy. 
Alan Shore: Judge, the guy insulted my honor; I was required by  the cannons of barroom conduct to 
respond. This being America, I simply enlisted unsu specting warriors who had no idea what I was 
getting them into. 
Judge Jamie Atkinson: Was anybody hurt?  3 D.A. Casey Mathias: Cuts and bruises. There was some damage to the bar.  
Tara Wilson: My suggestion is we admit to sufficient facts. You continue it without a finding; my client 
makes full restitution to the bar. 
Judge Jamie Atkinson: That’s not gonna fly. 
Tara Wilson: It was self-defense, Mr Shore was hit. That fact th at he hired others to do the hitting 
back doesn’t preclude…  
Judge Jamie Atkinson: You want a not guilty, Counsel? You need a trial. 
Alan Shore: We could do it today. 
Judge Jamie Atkinson: You’re ready to proceed now? 
Alan Shore: I’ll stipulate to all the facts in the police repor t, though I must take issue with some of the 
spelling. 
D.A. Casey Mathias: The Judge looks at him.  If he stips to the facts, I could be ready tomorrow . 
Alan Shore: Jury trial of course. I could provide the court wit h a list of my closest peers. 
Judge Jamie Atkinson: I leave for Aspen on Wednesday, so we will complete  this in one day. Alan 
mouths ‘Aspen’.  Ten o’clock tomorrow. The defendant is released on  personal recognizance. Mr 
Shore? It would be big mistake to come in here thin king this is funny. 
Alan Shore: To Tara. You mean it’s not funny? 
 
In Judge Clark Brown’s courtroom. 
Shirley Schmidt: You cannot just ban read meat. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Any municipality can pass reasonable health regulat ions… 
Shirley Schmidt: Ah. Yes. Let’s just pause on that word reasonable. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Many towns are dry forbidding the sale of alcohol…  
Shirley Schmidt: There’s an enormous difference between the sale…  
Judge Clark Brown: Hold on a second Ms Schmidt. In my courtroom we all ow counsel to finish their 
thoughts. We do not…” 
Shirley Schmidt: If I could interrupt. The author of this particular  and preposterous legislation happens 
to be both politically ambitious and a glutton for publicity, which this new law, funny thing, happens  to 
be generating. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Red meat poses legitimate health concerns. 
Shirley Schmidt: So do overzealous elected officials, we don’t just ban them. If only we could. 
Judge Clark Brown: Now! I shall do the interrupting. If nothing else, I pride myself on being a 
conscientious fact-finder. 
Denny Crane: Oh, brother. 
Judge Clark Brown: Mr Crane, did you say something? 
Denny Crane: It’s a stupid law. Overturn it. Be a man. 
Denny Crane: Mr Crane was trying to be helpful, apparently he di d not succeed. 
Judge Clark Brown: What is the reason specifically for your client ban ning the sale of red meat? 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy. 
Judge Clark Brown: Mad cow disease? 
Attorney Timothy Simms: We’re fearful of an outbreak. 
Judge Clark Brown: In Summersport? 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Everywhere. 
Shirley Schmidt: That’s ridiculous! 
Judge Clark Brown: Very well. We shall hold an evidencary hearing. Fir st person I shall hear from is 
the mayor. Then Ms Schmidt, if you so desire, I sha ll listen to your client. Until the, we are adjourn ed. 
Denny Crane: Put on a dress. 
Judge Clark Brown: Two o’clock! He pounds his gavel and leaves.  
Shirley Schmidt: What are you doing? 
Denny Crane: I know this judge. I know where his buttons are. 
Shirley Schmidt: Research shows, Denny, it’s not wise to antagonize the people whose favor you’re 
trying to court. 
Denny Crane: Oh, come on, Shirley. You still antagonize me, and we both know what’s really going 
on don’t we? 
Shirley Schmidt: You sweet man. It’s been a long time since you hit my button. I doubt you’d even 
know where to find it. 
Denny Crane: Just a matter of time, Shirley. Just a matter of ti me. To Dominick. This doesn’t involve 
you, man. It’s sexual.  4 Dominick Ryan: I thought you said the judge would strike the law d own? 
Shirley Schmidt: It just got a little tougher, Dominick. They played  the Mad Cow card. 
 
In the courthouse, out in the corridor Mayor George  Bostwick is surrounded by reporters. 
Mayor George Bostwick:  Sometime a mayor has to do what’s right, even if i t isn’t popular. Red meat 
presents risks which I, as the guardian of my const ituency, am unwilling to assume. 
Further down the corridor, Denny, Shirley and Domin ick are also surrounded by reporters. 
Shirley Schmidt: Legislation is capricious on its face, that will ou r only comment at this time. 
Denny Crane: Pop goes the weasel. How are you?. Denny Crane. Sti ll cuckoo for Coco Puffs. Who’s 
your daddy? Denny Crane. Pop goes the weasel. 
 
In Judge Clark Brown’s courtroom, Mayor Bostwick is  on the stand. 
Mayor George Bostwick:  Simpy put. I don’t think we can guarantee the safe ty of beef. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Why not? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  Well, for starters, we just lifted the ban on Cana dian cattle where Mad Cow 
disease was just found. Again. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: The percentage of Mad Cow in Canada is statisticall y… 
Mayor George Bostwick:  B-b-b-but why take chances? Consider this disease.  It’s incurable, it rots the 
brain, it’s invariable fatal, and it’s a painful de ath. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: But our government has assured us there’s absolutel y no danger in this. 
Mayor George Bostwick:  Our government is pro-beef, are you kidding? In th e last five years the 
agriculture business has donated 140 million dollar s to congressional and presidential candidates. 
Fast food chains, the Cattlemen’s Beef Associate. Y ou name it. They’ve all given big bucks. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: But the Department of Agriculture says that…  
Mayor George Bostwick:  Oh please. The USDA is in the meat industry’s back  pocket. 
Judge Clark Brown: What evidence do you have of that? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  You want evidence? How about the last Secretary of  Agriculture appointed 
meat industry advocates to top jobs at the USDA? Ho w about the Secretary’s former Chief Of Staff 
used to be chief lobbyist for the National Cattleme n’s Beef Association? The USDA has been bought. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Pretty strong words, Mr Bostwick. Oprah got sued fo r saying less. 
Mayor George Bostwick:  Well what does that tell you? The meat industry ge ts to sue a talk show host 
for putting down a hamburger? Free speech doesn’t a pply when it comes to beef? 
Judge Clark Brown: Well, certainly the USDA has an interest in making meat safe? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  But they have a double mandate Your Honor. And whi le one may be to keep 
beef safe. But the other, the bigger one, is to pro mote the sale of American meat. You think there’s a  
real interest in this country in rooting out Mad Co w disease? It’s don’t ask, don’t tell. 
Shirley Schmidt: Objection! 
Mayor George Bostwick: : This past April, a cow, stumbled and fell in Texa s. The vet suspected a 
central nervous system disorder. That animal should  have been tested. It wasn’t. It was quickly 
slaughtered and put into pig feed. Why? Because God  forbid we discover Mad Cow disease. It’d cost 
billions and billions of dollars! Well, I’m not gon na wait. If that gets me sued. So be it. 
Shirley Schmidt: How many people in this country have been afflicted  with the human strain of Mad 
Cow disease? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  I don’t plan to…  
Shirley Schmidt: To wait. Yes. How many? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  We don’t know. 
Shirley Schmidt: There have been no confirmed cases. 
Mayor George Bostwick:  According to some scientists, many people we think  have Alzheimer’s could 
in fact be sick from Mad Cow disease. 
Shirley Schmidt: Are you a scientist sir? 
Mayor George Bostwick: : No. 
Shirley Schmidt: Before you became mayor, what was your occupation? 
Mayor George Bostwick: : I owned auto dealerships. 
Shirley Schmidt: You were a car salesman? Given that 3 million peopl e are killed or injured on our 
roads every year, do you also plan to ban automobil es? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  No. 
Shirley Schmidt: What about Salmonella? Any plans to criminalize chi ckens? 
Mayor George Bostwick: : People don’t die from chickens or…   5 Shirley Schmidt: What about mercury in fish? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  It’s a concern. But again, I made a judgment as ma yor and the selectmen 
concurred that the dangers of beef…  
Shirley Schmidt: Have you any personal political ambitions beyond th at of being mayor of 
Summersport? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  I’m not trying to get headlines, if that’s what yo u’re saying? 
Shirley Schmidt: I didn’t say that, but… funny you did. Under her breath to Denny. Have you got 
anything? 
Denny Crane: You would agree, Mr Mayor that by an large, vegetar ians are communists? 
Mayor George Bostwick:  I certainly would not. 
Denny Crane: We’re at war, Mr Bostwick. Think we can win that wa r if we suddenly say to our 
soldiers no more meat? Think a nation of fish-eater s can protect the world you wimp? 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Objection? 
Denny Crane: Withdrawn. Nothing further. 
Mayor George Bostwick:  Wimp? 
Shirley Schmidt: What the hell are you doing? 
Denny Crane: Don’t bother with the merits, Shirley. This case, i t’s all about the judge. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Alan and Tara walk int o the conference room. Paul is there. 
Alan Shore: You asked to see us. 
Paul Lewiston: Sit. 
Alan Shore: In a stage whisper to Tara.  Not to worry. This is standard. He purposely doesn’ t look 
up. It’s a technique taught in the forties for esta blishing dominion. 
Paul Lewiston: You were involved in a bar altercation last night. 
Alan Shore: Altercation? I think not. It was a brawl. 
Paul Lewiston: And you were arrested? 
Alan Shore: I was. Trial starts tomorrow actually. Can I count on you as a character witness? 
Paul Lewiston: Who’s defending you? 
Alan Shore: I’m representing myself. With Tara’s assistance. 
Paul Lewiston: There’s not opportunity to plead this out? 
Alan Shore: Only if I plead guilty, which is of course, unaccep table. I have to worry about a three 
strikes law since I plan to commit future crimes. 
Paul Lewiston: Ha! I don’t know what kind of career death-wish you  have, Mr Shore, but if you’re 
convicted, if you get time, your employment will be  terminated. That may be of little consequence to 
you… 
Alan Shore: If I had a nickel for every time you’ve threatened to fire me, Paul, I could simply retire. 
Tara Wilson: Under her breath.  Alan, cut it out. 
Paul Lewiston: It is not my habit to lecture. Alan scoffs.  But what you did last night was selfish. We 
have a reputation here at Crane, Poole and Schmidt.  Alan mouths along ‘Crane, Poole and 
Schmidt.’  The attorneys here take great pride in that reputa tion. It undermines everyone at Crane, 
Poole and Schmidt. Alan mouths along ‘Crane, Poole and Schmidt.’  when a lawyer here is 
criminally prosecuted. Your actions hurt people. Al l of us must now tender explanations to our friends , 
our colleagues, to safeguard and repair the reputat ion of Crane, Poole and Schmidt. Alan mouths 
along ‘Crane, Poole and Schmidt.’  Stop it!!! I’ve had it. Do you hear me? I have had  it. Get out. 
Both of you. 
 
In Judge Clark Brown’s courtroom, Dr Raymond Young is on the stand. 
Dr Raymond Young:  Personally, I would never eat meat. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Why doctor? 
Dr Raymond Young:  We don’t have the means to keep track of what catt le are being fed. Nor are we 
adequately testing them in my opinion. 
Shirley Schmidt: Your Honor. I object to paranoia being offered as e vidence. 
Dr Raymond Young:  I’m sorry, but it’s absolutely reckless for a gove rnment to be telling us we’re 
safe, when the scientific community can’t necessari ly detect all the ways this disease can be 
contracted or transmitted. 
Judge Clark Brown: But let’s look at statistic. Nobody in this country  seems to be getting sick from 
Mad Cows.  6 Dr Raymond Young:  Judge, we just can’t know that. The disease may ha ve an incubation period of 
up to 40 years. You may be infected right now. 
Judge Clark Brown: My point is nobody now seems to be demonstrating sy mptoms. 
Dr Raymond Young: We don’t know that for sure either. The human strai n of the Mad Cow disease 
called Creutzfeldt-Jakob. But we call it CJD. You c an also get CJD sporadically, with no link to 
infected meat. And some of the people we’ve diagnos ed with Alzheimer’s might in fact have CJD. We 
don’t know how many cases there really are. You can not tell me the government has all this figured 
out. 
Shirley Schmidt: And the government just covers this up? 
Dr Raymond Young:  Well, it’s probably not so much a cover-up. It’s j ust we’re not terribly motivated to 
discover the problem. The economic consequences wou ld be too severe. 
Shirley Schmidt: Economic consequences? The beef industry would risk  an outbreak of Mad Cow 
disease? That wouldn’t bankrupt them overnight? 
Dr Raymond Young:  The beef industry can’t always tell when a cow is sick. And they’re desperate to 
believe that isolated cases are isolated cases. 
Shirley Schmidt: And the Department of Agriculture just plays along?  
Dr Raymond Young:  The month after that sick cow was found in Washing ton state? Mad Cow 
disease testing dropped almost 50%. That’s outrageo us. 
Shirley Schmidt: It eventually went up? 
Dr Raymond Young:  Look. They tried to track the herd where that Wash ington cow came from? They 
couldn’t find 53 of the 80 cows. They’ve since admi tted their cattle track-back system isn’t up and 
running, and it would have to be done on a voluntar y bases. Voluntary! Please! What meat-packing 
plant wants the distinction of having a mad cow? Wh ich is why I order the fish. 
Shirley Schmidt: Under her breath.  Denny? 
Denny Crane: Hmm? 
Shirley Schmidt: I’m getting my ass kicked here. 
Denny Crane: I can see that. 
Shirley Schmidt: Any suggestions? 
Denny Crane: To Dr Young.  How old are you, sir? 
Dr Raymond Young:  46. 
Denny Crane: I’m 72. I can mop the floor with you. You know why?  I eat meat. Makes me strong. 
Builds up my immune system, fights off a whole bunc h of other diseases I might have had if I weren’t 
so strong. Red meat saves lives, maybe. Ever think about that? 
Dr Raymond Young:  I’m sorry but there’s no real evidence to support that opinion. 
Denny Crane: Oh. Sorry. Any hard evidence to support yours? 
Dr Raymond Young:  Hard evidence? No. Denny smugly lifts his hand to the Judge, the Judge  
smiles. But I don’t think we really wanna wait for that evi dence to come rushing in. 
Denny Crane: He is dejected. Under his breath to Shirley . I had him there. Right till the end. 
 
In Judge Jamie Atkinson’s courtroom. Edwards is on the stand. 
Edwards: He basically offered us a hundred dollars to fight.  
D.A. Casey Mathias: You took the money? 
Edwards: Yes. 
D.A. Casey Mathias: And you fought? 
Edwards: Yes. 
D.A. Casey Mathias: Thank you sir. 
Alan Shore: Interesting. We agreed to stipulate to the facts an d the prosecution sees fit to distort 
them just the same. 
D.A. Casey Mathias: Objection! 
Alan Shore: Mr Edwards? I didn’t say, ‘Here’s a hundred dollars , go fight.’ Did I? 
Edwards: Well… 
Alan Shore: Did I not first ask your friend Mike to avenge an a ssault committed against me? 
Edwards: Yes. 
Alan Shore: And then when Mike was attacked, I enlisted you and  others to go to his aid, did I not? 
Edwards: Yes. 
Alan Shore: And the man who first assaulted me had many colleag ues who joined the fray? Did he 
not? 
Edwards: Yes!  7 Alan Shore: In fact Joe’s friends first turned it into a brawl,  wouldn’t you say? 
Edwards: Yes. 
Alan Shore: And as a friend of Mike’s, is it your testimony you  would not have gone to his aid, had I 
not offered you the money? 
Edwards: No. I would’a probably jumped in anyway at that poi nt. 
Alan Shore: Well! Given your honest and forthright testimony, w hich has shed blinding light on what 
happened at the bar that night, would you now consi der yourself a witness more for the prosecution 
or the defense? 
Edwards: Uh. I guess, defense. 
Alan Shore: Thank you, Mr Edwards. You deserve another hundred.  
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Denny, Shirley and Dom inick are in the lobby. 
Dominick Ryan: We’re going to lose? 
Shirley Schmidt: It hasn’t gone well. Surely you’ve noticed? 
Dominick Ryan: My grandfather started this steakhouse. How can…? I  just can’t believe it! 
Shirley Schmidt: It isn’t over yet. We still have some summations, b ut... 
Denny Crane:  He lifts his hand to stop Shirley, then he leads h er aside. I’ll tell you this one more 
time. Play the judge! The man lives with his mother , he wears lifts. The buzz word is nansy pansy. 
Shirley Schmidt: I beg your pardon? 
Denny Crane: Nansy. Pansy. He doesn’t wanna fall on that side of  the fence. It’s even worse than 
namby, pamby. 
Shirley Schmidt: What are you talking about? 
Denny Crane: Trust me, Shirley. For once, can you do that? 
Shirley Schmidt: Nansy. Pansy. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Alan is in his office seated behind his desk. 
Tara Wilson: She comes in.  I was thinking perhaps I should close. 
Alan Shore: Don’t be ridiculous. 
Tara Wilson: I’m sorry? 
Alan Shore: No offense, Tara, but since I handled the witness, the jury will be expecting…  
Tara Wilson: Did you see the faces on the jury? They weren’t imp ressed. They found you smug. You 
were perhaps too self-satisfied to notice. 
Alan Shore: Are we at certain point in our cycle, Tara? She crosses her arms and doesn’t answer. 
I apologize. 
Tara Wilson: Do you? That’s a first. 
Alan Shore: He gets up, walks around his desk and stands in fro nt of her . Say what you must. 
Tara Wilson: I was hugely embarrassed by what happened at the ba r. Not to mention terrified. I could 
have been injured. Did that ever occur to you? I me an it would have been one thing had you had any 
Neanderthal reaction and swung back! But your respo nse was considered! You reflectively, calmly, 
orchestrated your violence. People could have been hurt. I could have been hurt. But you’ve not once 
considered that, because contrary to the rumor that  you are the center of the universe, clearly you ar e 
the universe. And I for one am getting sick of it. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Paul and Shirley are i n the conference room. 
Shirley Schmidt: Alan Shore’s a good lawyer, Paul. If we fire him it  does leave a hole. 
Paul Lewiston: I am certainly mindful of that, but how far do we l et him push us? He has done this at 
every firm he has worked for. He defies them to the  point…, his last firm sued him. 
Shirley Schmidt: Yes! And he went on, they didn’t. 
Chelina Hall:  She comes in. Schmidt! Called? 
Shirley Schmidt: Chelina? I called you three hours ago! Where have y ou been? 
Chelina Hall: Patriots parade. 
Shirley Schmidt: The Patriots parade was last week! 
Chelina Hall: Three Super Bowls. Four years. I’m still on parade.  
Shirley Schmidt: You worked on the Yenetty meat packing case last ye ar. Didn’t you? 
Chelina Hall: Yes. 
Shirley Schmidt: What do you know about that cow in Washington State ? Chelina shrugs. I am 
about to suffer an embarrassing defeat in court. I need to show that what happened in Washington 
was an isolated…  Chelina puts up her hand. What?  8 Chelina Hall: Don’t go near the Washington case. It’s possible; i t wasn’t even a downer cow. 
Shirley Schmidt: What do you mean downer cow? 
Chelina Hall: Basically it means that the cow fell down. We’re to ld that the mad cows are easy to spot 
because they stumble and fall. We were told that th is cow fell. But eye witnesses in Washington say 
the cow was walking, and was tested only as a fluke . 
Shirley Schmidt: Which means… ? 
Chelina Hall: While we’re being told that the sick cows show easi ly detectable symptoms…  
Shirley Schmidt: …they sometimes don’t and therefore go undetected. 
Chelina Hall: Stay away from the Washington case. 
Shirley Schmidt: Thank you, Chelina. Chelina nods, then leaves. Pardon the expression, but, I’m 
dead meat. 
Paul Lewiston: You really think you’re going to lose? 
Shirley Schmidt: I’m tempted to employ Denny’s strategy. 
Paul Lewiston: Which? Is…? 
Shirley Schmidt: Nansy. Pansy. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Brad and Lori are in t he kitchen. 
Brad Chase: All I know is he instigated the brawl. The charge i s conspiracy to commit aggravated 
assault. 
Alan Shore: He comes in.  Talking about me Brad?  
Brad Chase: Yeah, we’re just trying to imagine you as the... in stigator. 
Alan Shore: What's that supposed to mean?  
Brad Chase: Sorry. Forget it. 
Alan Shore: No! Let's not forget it. How about you say what you  have to say, or is that too 
monumental an effort, completing whole sentences? 
Lori Colson: Come on, Alan. 
Alan Shore: You wanna talk about me, Lori? Perhaps you should r eposition yourself behind my back. 
Isn't that the rule of the game? 
Lori Colson: I don't talk about you behind your back. 
Brad Chase: You're not that interesting.  
Alan Shore: He shoves Brad.  I'm tired of this. Get that? 
Brad Chase: Oh, ha. I dunno what's going on with you, sport, bu t you're certainly smart enough to 
realize that I could probably dismember you in abou t… 
Alan Shore: He shoves Brad again.  Then do it. 
Lori Colson: Cut it out!  
Tara Wilson: She comes in.  What the hell is going on? 
Alan Shore: Careful, Tara. I wouldn’t want you to get hurt. Lis ten to me? Talking to others as if I 
weren’t the only one in the universe. When will I l earn? 
Tara Wilson: No! When will we learn… that you are always right? That it makes sense to start a 
barroom brawl. That it’s perfectly reasonable to ge t into a shoving match at the office. Nothing could  
be going on with you. When will we learn? Get help.  
 
In Judge Clark Brown’s courtroom, Shirley is giving  her closing. 
Shirley Schmidt: We had an expression in this country years ago call ed, ‘Where’s the beef?’ 
Translation? Where’s the substance? Your Honor, do you know anybody who’s been victimized by 
Mad Cow disease? Know anybody who knows anybody? Kn ow anybody, who knows anybody, who 
knows anybody? There’s simply not a shred of eviden ce to suggest that a single person in this 
country has ever become ill from a mad cow. But… wh y wait? That’s the mayor’s shingle. Why? 
Wait? Because this man and others like him, have sa crificed their lives and their livelihoods building  
their restaurants. Maybe as a courtesy, we could wa it for a scintilla of evidence before arbitrarily 
destroying their businesses. The fact is the USDA h as done an exemplary job conducting tests and 
establishing safeguards to prevent the outbreak of Mad Cow disease. Which is probably why, it hasn’t 
broken out. But we could give into our fear and pan ic, baseless panic, but that would make us… She 
looks down at Denny, then up at the Judge.  …a nation of nansy, pansy’s. I don’t know about you,  
but I don’t want to be a nansy, pansy. 
Attorney Timothy Simms: Towns make rules all the time. Lots of em. Zone fas t-food restaurants out of 
business. Through permits, they can control how you  build your house! Some towns ban alcohol. 
Cigarettes. Others have curfews. We do all kinds of  things. The only legal requirement is that the law s  9 are reasonable. It is not unreasonable to fear an o utbreak of Mad Cow disease. We’ve had a case in 
Washington State. Another, last month, in Canada, w e just lifted the ban on Canadian beef! The 
incubation period for this disease could be decades . We have no guarantee that we’re not already 
infected. It is simply reckless for the government to be injecting certainty, when the scientific 
community cannot. And forget Mad Cow, we already kn ow that eating beef can cause high 
cholesterol, heart disease, it increases the risk o f colon cancer, there’s listeria and ecoli, which h as 
already killed people. Dioxin! The poison that almo st killed the Ukrainian president that stuff is on our 
grazing grass! Scientists say the average American has about 10 units of Dioxin in their blood fat, 
simply from eating animal fat. There are all kinds of reasonable justifications for a mayor to try to 
reduce red meat from diet of his citizenry. And let  me remind you, there is nothing, nothing in the 
constitution that guarantees anybody the right to s ell a hamburger. 
Denny mouths ‘Nansy, pansy’ to the judge. 
 
In Judge Jamie Atkinson’s courtroom, D.A. Mathias i s giving is his closing.  
D.A. Casey Mathias: This wasn’t self-defense. Mr Shore was not under an y physical threat when he 
paid the first man to fight. This was vengeance for  hire. And once that violence began he started 
paying others to escalate it. These facts are not i n dispute. The only real question for you here is, “Is 
Mr Shore above the law or not?”  
Alan Shore: I’ve been accused of reflectively, perhaps even gli bly, orchestrating a little revenge. Well, 
I guess that’s how I wanted it to look. A man punch ed me in the face, in front of my girlfriend, and 
while my instinct was to hit him back, the truth is , I was afraid. I was fearful, that if I retaliated  he 
would beat me up. So I got somebody else to do my f ighting, then things got out of hand, and… 
well… I had to send more and more troops to a war t hat should have ended quickly. But, make no 
mistake, my reaction that night was not so much ref lective, as it was, primal. A man hit me, and while  
we like to think of ourselves as being evolved… may be I should have just hit him. There’s a warrior 
that lies within the belly of every man, a warrior who, in my case, has always gone unsatisfied. I tri ed 
to satisfy it, but without pain. That’s what the cr aven do sometimes. They stand out of the fray, thum p 
their egos along with their chests, and let others do the fighting. He walks back to his table and sits 
down. Tara reaches over to take his hand. He glance s down for a moment then caresses her 
hand with his thumb.  
 
In Judge Clark Brown’s courtroom, all parties prese nt. 
Judge Clark Brown: He comes in. Well, thank you all for staying late. I did some re search of my own. 
As you may know I pride myself on being a conscient ious fact finder. 
Denny Crane: There we go. He shakes his finger at the Judge and mouths ‘No na nsy, pansy’ to 
him. 
Judge Clark Brown: Mad Cow disease is here, and for all the guarantees  supplied by the government, 
the scientific community doesn’t back ‘em up. We al l have a right to be concerned. The governmental 
agencies in place to protect us seem to be controll ed by the industries we need protection from! This 
Mad Cow disease started out in Europe and worked it s way over here. And it is true; the scientists are  
at odds with our government. But as a tryer of fact , a judge must rely on facts and there is no 
evidence of an epidemic. If a judge were to allow h imself to be governed by fear alone, well, then it is 
true and I agree it would make him a… a… nansy, pan sy. This judge is anything but! I find the law 
banning sale of red meat to be premature, if not ca pricious, and it is hereby overturned. 
Denny Crane: Way to go, Judge. 
Judge Clark Brown: Case adjourned! 
Shirley Schmidt: Anybody up for a burger? 
Dominick Ryan: Thank you. Thank you. Thank God. 
Shirley Schmidt: Well, Denny, I admit I had my doubts, but you won t his case. Thank you. 
Denny Crane: Does this mean we’re having sex tonight? 
Shirley Schmidt: Allow me the dream a little longer. 
Denny Crane: I won the day. I deserve to be rewarded. 
Shirley Schmidt: I’ll give you this. She puts her mouth to his ear and breaths:  Denny, Dennyyy, 
Dennyyy Craaane! 
Denny Crane: Whoa. 
 
In Judge Jamie Atkinson’s courtroom, she is reading  the verdict.  
Alan Shore: Under his breath to Tara.  I must be acquitted. She’s not smiling.  10  Tara Wilson: Shh. 
Judge Jamie Atkinson: Madam Foreperson, you’ve reached a unanimous verdic t? 
Foreperson:  We have, Your Honor. 
Judge Jamie Atkinson: What say you? 
Foreperson:  Commonwealth versus Alan Shore, on the count of co nspiracy to committee aggravated 
assault, we find the defendant, Alan Shore, not gui lty. 
Alan Shore: We appeal, Judge. 
Judge Jamie Atkinson: Members of the jury, this completes your service, y ou can go. Mr Shore! This 
probably doesn’t have to be good bye, so much as, ‘ Until we meet again.’ 
Alan Shore: Yes, Your Honor. To Tara. She’s attracted to me. 
Tara Wilson: No doubt. 
Alan Shore: Tara? I am sorry. I never meant to put you in any d anger. 
Tara Wilson: I know. 
Alan Shore: When you… launched into that diatribe about me bein g the… 
Tara Wilson: The Universe. 
Alan Shore: You said you were sick of it. Are you sick of me? Tara doesn’t reply.  Are you sick of me, 
Tara? 
Tara Wilson: No. 
Alan Shore: As much as I… loathe… sentiment, together with it’s  expression… I cherish you. You 
should just know, you really, really smell good. 
Tara Wilson: You smell good too. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Denny is having a ciga r out on the balcony. Alan joins him, cigar 
and drink in hand. 
Denny Crane: How’d you do? 
Alan Shore: Jury was out 15 minutes. Not guilty. I think they t ook pity on me. 
Denny Crane: Congratulations. 
Alan Shore: I hear you won. 
Denny Crane: Um. 
Alan Shore: Everything okay? 
Denny Crane: I don’t have Alzheimer’s. I have Mad Cow disease. 
Alan Shore: Well, it’s nice to finally know. A beat. Ever beat up anybody with your bare hands? 
Denny Crane: Many times. Why? 
Alan Shore: Just asking. 
Denny Crane: Have you? 
Alan Shore: No. 
Denny Crane: Well! Makes you a better man than I, I guess. 
Alan Shore: Guess so. 