 1 Boston Legal  
Catch and Release 
Season 1, Episode 3 
Written by David E. Kelley and Peter Ocko 
© 2004 David E. Kelley Productions.  All Rights Res erved. 
Broadcast October 17, 2004 
Transcribed by olucy 
 
 
The scene opens at night in Alan’s office.  He’s wo rking at his desk and Sally is nervously pacing wit h a 
folder in her hand. 
 
Sally Heep:  Why aren’t you helping me?  
Alan Shore: Sally, I have a trial of my own beginning tomorrow.   A rather big one. 
Sally Heep: But this is my very first trial.  
Alan Shore: You’ve certainly been in court before.  I have no d oubt you’ll do well.  
Sally Heep:  Motion practice.  This is with a jury.  I don’t—I d on’t think I’m ready.  
Alan gets up from his desk, closes his office door,  walks over to Sally and takes the folder out of he r 
hand. He takes her hands in his and looks at her in tently. 
Alan Shore: Sally, look at me.  You trust me? 
Sally Heep: I do. 
Alan Shore: And because you trust me, you’ll believe what I’m a bout to tell you.  
Sally Heep: I will 
Alan Shore: That’s all it is . 
Sally Heep: All what is? 
Alan Shore: Trial law. Getting the jury to trust you, so you’ll  believe what you tell them. 
Sally Heep: Really? 
Alan puts his hands on either side of her face and strokes her face. 
Alan Shore: Sincerity, Sally.  Once you learn to fake that, the re’ll be no stopping you.  
 
Theme song 
 
Daytime.  Denny’s office.  There is a medical tray on his desk with syringes and supplies.  We see tha t a 
gentleman in a suit, wearing medical gloves, is inj ecting something into Denny’s forehead. Paul walks 
into Denny’s office. 
 
Paul Lewiston: Denny, we’ve got….what’s going on? 
Denny Crane: A little maintenance work, Paul.  Wouldn’t hurt you  by the way.  You look like a prune. 
Paul Lewiston: We have the Kaneb meeting in 15 minutes. 
Denny Crane: Excellent.  Why do I care? 
Paul Lewiston: You care because this is the construction project t hat the entire firm has been working on for 18 
months.  You care because Byron Kaneb cares and he expects you to be present. 
Denny screams in pain . 
Denny Crane: Ooh!  Ow!  Damn it, man, what have you done?  Denny jumps out of the chair.  There is a 
piece of syringe still stuck in his forehead above his left eyebrow. 
Dr. Lott: Uh, the needle broke.  Not to worry.  Just let me r emove it. 
Denny Crane: Don’t you touch me.  
Dr. Lott: Mr. Crane, half the needle is still in your forehea d. Just let me remove it.  
Denny Crane: You’re not touching me!  Get Dr. Michaels back down  here.  This is what happens when I let his 
kids cut their teeth on my head. 
Dr. Lott: If I could just remove the needle— 
Denny Crane: Don’t you touch me. 
Paul Lewiston: Denny.  There’s a needle in your head.  Let him at least remove it. 
Denny Crane: Get me Dr. Michaels! 
 
  2 Alan and Lori are walking down the hall at CP&S, ta lking. 
Alan Shore: I really don’t need a second chair for this.  
Lori Colson: Sexual harassment is a specialty of mine.  
Alan Shore: Mine too! 
Lori Colson: No doubt, but while your experience tends to be han ds on, mine—  
Alan Shore: Tends to be more wishful thinking. 
Lori Colson: Not to mention, you ooze. 
Alan Shore: I ooze. 
Lori Colson: Yes.  That certain something that subliminally cham pions misogyny.  You need me.  
Alan Shore: Lori, as much as I may want you.  Desire you, even.   I do not need you. 
Lori Colson: See that right there?  Ooze. 
 
Inside a conference room at CP&S. A meeting with By ron Kaneb, the client, and Paul, Brad, Tara, and 
Denny, who still has the needle stuck over his eyeb row. 
Byron Kaneb: When can I dig my hole? 
Paul Lewiston: We’re almost there, Byron.  
Byron Kaneb: Don’t tell me we’re almost there, Paul.  We’ve been  almost there  for 6 months.  When will we be  
there? 
Brad Chase: City Council agreed to the variance for the golf co urse on Monday.  Today we’re expecting an 
answer from the Redevelopment Commission for the ou tdoor mall and my sources say they’re going to rule  in 
our favor. 
Byron Kaneb: What about the damn EPA? 
Tara Wilson: The blue-spotted salamander just got downgraded fro m “endangered” to “threatened” last week.  
So the marina looks like a go.  Except for— 
Byron Kaneb: Except for what? 
Paul Lewiston: It seems there’s a river where some salmon spawn. E vidently there’s some environmental lawyer 
who’s making a stink. 
Byron Kaneb: When  you say “stink”—  
Paul Lewiston: He got a T.R.O.  
Byron Kaneb: A fish? My city’s being held up by a fish? 
Paul Lewiston: We are meeting the lawyer today.  We will make it g o away. 
 
Alan, Lori and their client Wendy Moore are walking  down the hallway of the courthouse. 
Alan Shore: Do you plan to contribute or are you simply assigne d to mop up the ooze? 
Christine Pauley: Alan.  Christine Pauley is standing in the doorway of one of the courtrooms.  She 
addresses Alan as he walks by.  Alan turns to see w ho called his name.  
Christine Pauley:  Hello. Christine Pauley. Christine walks over and shakes the hand of the cli ent . 
Lori Colson: Oh, I’ve heard so much about you. 
Christine Pauley: (to Alan)  How are you? 
Alan Shore: Fine. Thank you.  If you’ll excuse us, we’re due in  court. 
Christine Pauley: Yes, I know. I’m opposing counsel. 
Alan Shore: (looking incredulous)  I beg your pardon? 
 
Inside Judge’s chambers with the judge, Alan, Chris tina and Lori. 
Judge Paul Resnick: What do you want me to do?  
Alan Shore: I expect you to disqualify her. This is tantamount to stalking.  She got herself assigned to this case  
because I’m on it.  Not to mention, as an officer o f the court I question whether Ms. Pauley even has the 
capacity to try a case.  She was released from a me ntal facility last week. 
Judge Paul Resnick: Certainly, counsel, if you want to conflict out— 
Alan Shore: I can’t conflict out.  I’m the only one who knows t he case here. Ms Colson was simply put on to—  
Judge Paul Resnick: Ms. Pauley, what’s going on?  Of all the cases to s tart off with, you pick against an ex-
boyfriend you tried to kill? 
Christine Pauley: Actually, your honor, I didn’t pick it.  My firm ca me to me. 
Alan Shore: Please Christine, I—  3 Christine Pauley: Because I used to date Mr. Shore, they thought I co uld shed some light on some of his 
procedural eccentricities, which I did.  Since I al so happen to have extensive experience in sexual ha rassment 
law, the senior partners asked me if I would first chair.  I agreed. 
JD: We start at 11 a.m. 
Alan Shore: Your honor— 
JD: Mr. Shore, if you want to conflict out, do so.  But  I have no legal basis to disqualify Ms. Pauley.  
Alan picks up his briefcase and walks out of the ju dge’s chambers.   Christine and Lori follow him out  
and down the courthouse hallway. 
Christine Pauley: May I speak with you alone, Alan?  
Alan Shore: No, you may not Christine.  And if you choose to be  on this case, please conduct yourself at arm’s 
length and on the record.  It’s just coincidence to  you.  Your first case out of the hospital— 
Their voices are escalating as the conversation con tinues. 
Christine Pauley: I consider it a preposterous coincidence— 
Alan Shore: You have no business trying a case— 
Christine Pauley:   But truth be told the partners came in-- 
Alan Shore: I know you better than your partners. 
Christine Pauley: How sad you can’t be happy for me. 
Alan Shore: I’m not happy. 
Christine Pauley: Clearly.  She walks away, angry. 
Lori Colson: Well that seemed perfectly normal. 
 
Sally, talking to client Ramone Valasquez in anothe r hallway of the courthouse. 
Sally Heep: The D.A. offered a three-month suspended.  I think we should take it. 
Ramone Valasquez: Does it go on my record? 
Sally Heep: Well, yes, but— 
Ramone Valasquez: The answer’s no.  I didn’t do it. 
Sally Heep: Ramone. 
Ramone Valasquez: I didn’t take that wallet, and as a matter of princ iple, I won’t pretend that I took it. 
Sally Heep: They have an eyewitness. 
Ramone Valasquez: Look here.  I might seem like some court-appointed charity case.  But I’m an honest man.  I 
don’t steal.  And I won’t agree to any plea that sa ys otherwise.  
Sally looks up and recognizes Walter Seymore from C P&S walking by. 
Sally Heep: Mr. Seymore?  Hi.  Sally Heep.  I’m in litigation a t the firm.  She walks over to shake his hand.  
Walter Seymore: I know that. 
Sally Heep: Are you in court today, or— 
Walter Seymore: No, but you are.  I’m here to observe your work, Mi ss Heep.  Good luck.  He walks away after 
shaking her hand. 
 
Denny’s office.  Denny is at his desk with the need le still in his forehead.  Paul walks in. 
Paul Lewiston: Denny?  The lawyer who got the T.R.O.?  On the Kane b construction project— 
Denny Crane: Ah, pay him off, Paul.  Give him a bottle of scotch  and some money to buy some more bus bench 
ads. 
Paul Lewiston: He says he’s your son.    
Denny and Paul walking to the conference room and e nter, where Denny Crane is standing. Brad, Tara 
and other unnamed lawyers are seated at the confere nce table. 
Denny Crane: It’s true. You’re a lawyer now . 
Denny Crane: Hey. Dad.  Denny walks around the table to stand in front of D enny. 
Denny Crane: You’ve got a needle in your head. 
Denny Crane: Small accident. Not to worry.  Son.  
Denny Crane: Dad.   Shyly hugs Denny. Pats him on the back.  Denny resp onds by patting his back. 
Denny Crane: You’re a lawyer now. That’s how you greet people? 
Denny extends his hand. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane.  
Denny grasps his extended hand in a handshake. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane.   4 Denny Crane: Denny Crane . 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane : Denny Crane . 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane. 
 
While the conference is going on, Denny stands outs ide the conference room talking to Paul. 
Denny Crane: I had a one-night stand with his mother.  I paid fo r his education and so forth.  I did everything I 
could to be a good father. 
Paul Lewiston: When’s the last time you saw him? 
Denny Crane: Oh, I don’t know.  When he was 12? 
Brad walks out of the conference room and over to t he two of them. 
Brad Chase: We’ve offered several decent compromises. 
Paul Lewiston: And? 
Brad Chase: He just keeps on saying his name.  
Denny Crane: Oh, I’ll talk to him.  Walks back into the conference room. How’s my boy? 
Denny Crane: They don’t really need to bug you with this, dad. 
Denny Crane: So what’s this all about?  Saving some fish? 
Denny Crane: Well, see, your lawyers, who are clearly very talen ted, persuaded a judge to eliminate the 
distinction between farmed salmon and wild salmon. 
Paul Lewiston : The President of the United States proposed elimi nating that distinction.  
Denny Crane: Yeah, I know. That’s probably why the judge granted  your motion.  Dad, wild salmon are an 
endangered species.  The administration figures if you eliminate the distinction between farmed and wi ld and 
count them both as one, the numbers would go up and  you could take ‘em off the endangered list.  And t hat 
way, they can lift the environmental protections in  place to protect them.  Which, of course, allows y ou to build 
more shopping malls. 
Denny Crane: Well, son, look at the big picture.  If building th is mall can save a species from becoming 
endangered, let’s by all means do it.    Denny reaches over and slaps Denny’s leg.  
 
Inside the courtroom of Alan’s trial.  His client i s on the witness stand. 
Wendy Moore: I was vice president in charge of alternative inves tments.  
Alan Shore: And at the time of the affair Mr. Ralston was— 
Wendy Moore: He was and remains, president of the firm. 
Alan Shore: This romantic affair lasted how long, Ms. Moore? 
Wendy Moore: About nine months, at which point I broke it off. 
Alan Shore: Because? 
Wendy Moore: Mainly, because I was a married woman, and I wanted  to work things out with my husband.  
Alan Shore : I see.  And how did Mr. Ralston handle the break up? 
Wendy Moore: At first, I think fine.  But then he would continue  to try to get back together.  He would schedule 
lunches, meetings, ostensibly about business only t o pursue his romantic interests.  He started callin g me after 
hours.  Sometimes he would send flowers.  Eventuall y, it got so bad I simply had to leave. 
Alan Shore: You went to another brokerage firm? 
Wendy Moore: At a lesser position for less money.  There seemed to be a stigma about my departure. 
Christine has been writing on a yellow legal pad al l this time.  She turns the page and continues to w rite 
faster and more frantically. 
Wendy Moore: I don’t know. Maybe people thought that I had secre tly been fired.  I don’t know.  Mr. Ralston 
leans over to whisper something to Christine Pauley .  She puts her hand on his arm, but keeps writing 
frantically.  What I do know is I was basically forced out of my  job by his relentless, unwanted sexual advances. 
Alan Shore: Thank you Ms. Moore.   Alan returns to his seat.  Christine is still writi ng frantically. 
Lori Colson: (to Alan)  She looks demented . 
Judge Paul Resnick: Ms Pauley?  Christine gets up to begin her cross examination. 
Christine Pauley: Leading up to your affair with my client, he made w elcome sexual advances?  
Wendy Moore: Well, not at first.  I was a married woman.  5 Christine Pauley: But at some point.  The advances became welcomed? 
Wendy Moore: Yes. 
Christine Pauley: A love affair then ensued? 
Wendy Moore: Yes. 
Christine Pauley: So, I guess my client’s strategy was if at first yo u don’t succeed, try, try again.  A strategy you 
certainly ratified. 
Wendy Moore: Well, I— 
Christine Pauley: Since dogged perseverance was rewarded the first ti me, I guess it would only be natural for 
him to adopt this strategy again.  
Wendy Moore: I may have sent  mixed signals the first time, but I did no such thing this time.  
Christine Pauley: Ah.  When you left, did you tell prospective employ ers the reason? 
Wendy Moore: No, I— 
Christine Pauley: Why not? 
Wendy Moore: I suppose I feared that it wouldn’t depict me in th e best possible light.  I was a married woman 
having an affair. 
Christine Pauley: Got it. So this stigma you refer to—people wonderin g whether you were fired or not—that 
stigma was at least partly caused by you embarrassm ent over your own behavior—a married woman having a n 
affair. 
Wendy Moore:  I suppose that’s true.  But I—  
Christine Pauley: Thank you, Ms. Moore .   Christine returns to her seat.  She and Alan ex change looks.  
Christine winks at Alan. 
 
Inside the courtroom of Sally’s trial.  Her client’ s accuser is on the witness stand. 
Sylvie White:  I was reaching into my purse to get some change.  T o feed the homeless.  That’s when I saw him 
coming. 
D.A. Huff: Who? 
Sylvie White: Him.  The guilty defendant sitting right there. 
Sally Heep: Objection. 
Judge Stephen Bickell:  The jury will disregard the reference to the defend ant’s guilt. 
D.A. Huff: Then what happened? 
Sylvie White: He reached into my purse, grabbed my wallet and sta rted rifling through it. 
D.A. Huff: What did you do? 
Sylvie White: I stood there frozen.  I was shocked.  He started r unning away as he was rifling through it.  Then 
he turns, and he’s coming back . 
D.A. Huff: Then what happened? 
Sylvie White: I ran.  He started chasing me.  Thank God he was ta ckled by some people. I don’t know what he 
might have done. 
D.A. Huff: Miss White, are you absolutely sure that it was the  defendant? 
Sylvie White: I can show you the pictures. 
D.A. Huff: What pictures? 
Sylvie White: I have one of those little phone camera thingies.  I snapped his picture. 
D.A. Huff: And you have them? 
Sylvie White is going through her purse, finds them  and hands them to D.A. Huff. 
Sylvie White: Look.  You can see he’s got the wallet. 
D.A. Huff looks at pictures, walks over to Sally an d hands them to her.  It’s clearly a picture of her  client, 
who looks at her sheepishly.  Over Sally’s shoulder , Walter Seymore is clearly sitting there watching 
her. 
 
That night, inside Paul’s office.  Paul is sitting a t his desk listening to Walter Seymore talk to Sall y. 
 
Walter Seymore: You just let the pictures be introduced without so much as an objection. 
Sally Heep: Well, I thought. Um. The prosecution didn’t know ab out them either.  So I couldn’t claim unfair 
surprise. 
Walter Seymore: You could’ve gotten time to prepare a cross-examina tion.  To research the photos for 
authenticity.  Instead, you sat there quietly.  The re’s eyewitness testimony from the victim.  Positiv e I.D. and 
pictures.  6 Paul Lewiston: How do you plan to proceed now Sally? 
Sally Heep: Um.  Pauses, shaking her head.  My client wants to testify. 
Paul Lewiston: And say what? 
Sally Heep: Um.  That he’s innocent.    Paul and Seymore just stare at Sally.  
 
The next day, Denny, Brad and Denny in Denny’s offi ce. 
Brad Chase: It’s a fish, for God’s sake. 
Denny Crane: It’s not just a fish.  It’s a salmon.  Which the go vernment is trying to wipe out. 
Brad Chase: Look, I like to fish myself.  Catch and release, th e whole shebang.  Pull ‘em in by the lip, throw ‘em  
back out to prove you’re humane. 
Denny Crane: You’re mocking me.  He’s mocking me, dad. 
Denny Crane: You’re a crane. Get used to it. 
Brad Chase: We will go to court . 
Denny Crane : I love court. Denny Crane. 
Brad Chase: Look, Denny.  You seem like a nice kid.  I have no doubt that you’re a terrific attorney.  But you are  
not him (nodding at Denny). 
Denny Crane: You’re like a son to him, aren’t you?  Does he hug you much? 
Brad Chase: Look, if this is about some score between you and t he old man— 
Denny Crane: It’s not about any score.  Hey. If you people want to go to court.  
Denny stands up behind his desk. 
Denny Crane: Beat it, will you Brad?  Brad gets up and leaves and closes the door.  
Denny Crane: Is it a score?  Was I not there enough? 
Denny Crane: Were you not there enough?   Dad, I haven’t seen yo u in 15 years. 
Denny Crane: I may not have had the time to give that most dads had.  But I thought I was giving you something 
much more important.  Money. 
Denny Crane: You gave me something even more important than that , dad.  You gave me the Crane legacy, 
and I fully plan on living up to it. So— he stands up —I’ll see you and your team in court.  Denny Crane.  
 
Back to the courtroom where Sally’s trial is taking  place.  Her client is on the witness stand. 
Ramone Valasquez: At first I saw it.  But I didn’t see it.  If that m akes any sense.  Uh, it took a few seconds to 
register. 
Sally Heep: What took a few seconds? 
Ramone Valasquez: My wallet.  I lost it two days earlier.  And then I  see it right there in her bag. 
Sally Heep: Your wallet? 
Ramone Valasquez; Yeah.  It’s this funky orange color, it’s not like there could be two of them, and I lost it on 
Washington right where we were at.  So I figured sh e stole it.  That woman stole my wallet.  
Sally Heep: So— 
Ramone Valasquez: So I walked right up and snatched it back.  Self he lp. 
Sally Heep: You snatched back your own wallet.  
Ramone Valasquez: Yes I did.  And I hustled off ‘cause truth be told,  the woman looked a little vicious. 
Sally Heep: So what happened next? 
Ramone Valasquez: Well, I started to go through it to make sure it wa s mine and as I was going through the 
inside I saw “Oh my God! It’s not my wallet.”  It l ooked exactly like mine, but it wasn’t.  Truth is, I discovered later 
I’d left it in my car. It was all a big mistake. So  I started to run back to return it.  And she just took off.  And I 
started  chasing, yelling “Lady, wait!  I’m bringin g it back”. Y’know, I’m bringing it back.  And then  I got tackled 
and…here I am. 
Sally Heep: Your witness.  Sally walks back to her table and notices Seymore w atching her.  
D.A. Huff: So the wallet that you ripped out of Miss White’s p urse, the wallet that you ran off with, you thought  it 
was your own? 
Ramone Valasquez: Yes ma’am. 
D.A. Huff: Because it looked exactly like yours.  
Ramone Valasquez: Yes ma’am.  This one here.  He reaches into his pocket and pulls out an identic al 
orange wallet. 
 
Back to Alan’s courtroom, with Daniel Ralston on th e witness stand.  7 Daniel Ralston: When we broke up, it was because she felt committed  to working things out with her family.  It 
wasn’t that things were emotionally over between us . 
Christine Pauley : She said that? 
Daniel Ralston: Yes, and I suppose I felt, you know, when two peopl e love each other you persevere through 
obstacles. My so-called sexual harassment.  It wasn ’t about sexual advances.  It was about getting her  to be 
true to her feelings. 
Alan Shore: You were trying to show her that she felt like havi ng sex with you? 
Daniel Ralston: Please don’t trivialize this . 
Alan Shore: I assure you, sir, I take it very seriously.  You s ay it’s okay to harass women in the workplace so 
long as you love them. 
Daniel Ralston: I believed, and still believe, she was in love with  me. 
Alan Shore: I see.  And she lacked the autonomy to make up her own mind. 
Christine Pauley: Objection. 
Alan Shore: She lacked the mental capacity, perhaps, to be trul y happy without you. 
Christine Pauley: Objection! (Louder) 
Alan Shore: Why is it some people simply refuse to accept that it’s over? 
Christine Pauley: Objection!  At this point Christine is yelling her objection an d comes to her feet, angry, 
and then looks flustered. 
 
Outside the courtroom, in the hallway, Christine is  talking to Alan. Lori is standing nearby, listenin g. 
Christine Pauley: I truly apologize.  For a second I thought you were  personalizing it, Alan, and I was out of line. 
I’m sorry. 
Alan Shore: It’s okay.  You all right? 
Christine Pauley: Yes.  It is ridiculous, the stress of a trial a wee k out of the rubber room. Going up against you.  
Alan Shore: Why are you doing this? 
Christine Pauley: It was always safe, inside work, you know?  It was a little cocoon. 
Alan Shore: Can you continue? 
Christine Pauley: Oh, yes.  It’s just a little---Again, I apologize f or the outburst.  
Christine turns and walks away.  Lori walks over to  Alan . 
Lori Colson: Whatever you can do to keep it personal. 
Alan Shore: I’m sorry? 
Lori Colson: She’s kind of been kicking our ass, Alan. That’s th e first crack I’ve seen in her armor. 
Alan Shore: I’m not going to exploit her.  
Lori Colson: Alan, if you can’t put your client’s interest ahead  of Christine’s, then step aside.  Let Number Two 
take over. 
 
Inside CP&S.  Byron Kaneb is talking to Paul, Brad and Denny. 
Byron Kaneb: We now have to go to court? 
Paul Lewiston: No, we are confident we’ll be able to handle this. 
Byron Kaneb: I hire one of the biggest law firms in Boston—defin itely one of the most expensive—and I’m being 
neutralized by salmon man?  Who happens to be your son. 
Denny Crane: Let me tell you something, Byron.  Denny takes a deep breath and then makes a tough fa ce, 
but says nothing. 
Paul Lewiston: Brad Chase is one of our finest litigators.  He wil l handle this.  Brad gives Byron a knowing 
wink. 
 
Inside Brad’s courtroom, where he is addressing Jud ge Leslie Bishop. 
Brad Chase: Your honor, we’ve had meetings with the Environment al Protection Agency and they signed off on 
this already. 
Denny Crane: With all due respect, the EPA gets steamrolled by t he administration all the time. 
Brad Chase:  No matter what anyone proposes these days, there’s always somebody somewhere who jumps up 
and says, “Whoa, the environment.”  Now there’s a w ord, your honor, a very simple word that describes what 
my client is trying to do here. 
Judge Leslie Bishop: Please don’t let the word be ‘progress.’   Brad is momentarily stymied. 
Brad Chase: How about ‘people’? 
Judge Leslie Bishop: ‘People’?   8 Brad Chase: Yes.  We are trying to invest in the future of peop le. Creating jobs at a time of unemployment.  
We’re talking about over one thousand jobs.  We’re talking about benefiting people below the poverty l ine. We 
are talking about people hoping to education their children, afford medical coverage, feed their famil ies. Basic 
human needs.  This man wants to put all that on hol d because it inconveniences a fish. 
Judge Leslie Bishop: Mr. Crane? 
Denny Crane: Well, first. This whole thing kinda goes to the who le farmed salmon issue.  The government is 
trying to count these genetically raised salmon as wild ones. 
Judge Leslie Bishop: So they can take salmon off the endangered species list.  I get that. So what?  
Denny Crane: So what? 
Brad Chase: People, judge. Jobs. Insurance. School books. Food.  People. 
Denny Crane: Well, farmed salmon is terrible for people.  They’r e carcinogenic.  They don’t even look like real 
salmon.  By the way, they’re fed these little pelle ts to turn their meat red.  Otherwise it’s this pal lid, white – 
Brad Chase: People. Jobs. America first. 
Denny Crane: There’s a rumor—I can’t give evidence on this, but there’s a rumor the cattle they have to kill due 
to mad cow disease, they ground ‘em up and then fee d the meat to the farmed salmon. 
Brad Chase:  Objection, your honor. There is nothing in the rec ord that even remotely substantiates that. 
Judge Leslie Bishop: Counsel, the river in question only concerns wild s almon so can we get off the farmed 
salmon? 
Denny Crane: We’re talking about lifting the environmental prote ctions on that river.  They’re inflating the salmon  
count with the farmed numbers to get those protecti ons lifted. 
Brad Chase: People. Jobs. Food chain.  
Denny Crane: Oh, yes. People and jobs.  Wild salmon is a billion -dollar industry in this country alone. Once we 
destroy the wild salmon population – and that’s wha t we’re doing – that’s a billion-dollar industry go ne.  People. 
Jobs. School books.  And we’ll have to go back to e ating meat.  People. Cancer. 
Brad Chase: We’ll just eat the farmed stuff.  There’s nothing w rong with synthetic food, your honor.  We live in a  
synthetic country, for God’s sake.  Denny looks incredulous when Brad says this. 
Denny Crane: Whoa.  And on that note, I’ll rest.  Denny Crane.  
 
That night. Alan and Sally are talking at a bar. 
Sally Heep: You should’ve seen Seymore’s face. I think I’m abou t to get fired. 
Alan Shore: (chuckling)  You won’t be fired.  He takes Sally’s hand in his.  
Sally Heep: What am I going to do?  What can I possibly say in my closing?  I’ve got nothing.  
Alan Shore: Rabbit. 
Sally Heep: I’m sorry? 
Alan Shore: Pull a rabbit out from under your dress.  You know what Gerry Spence does in these hopeless 
situations?  He just tells the jury a story. 
Sally Heep: A story? 
Alan Shore: Any story.  As long as it’s interesting. He just en tertains the jury.  He gets them right here— Alan 
points to the center of his palm  – and in that moment when he has them right here he  connects the story to 
his case.  Sometimes barely. Sometimes ridiculously . And then he asks the jury to let his client go an d for God 
knows what reason they often do.  A good story may be your rabbit.  Off-screen we hear a woman say Alan’s 
name.  He turns, and it’s--  
Christine Pauley: I’m sorry, Sally. This is a little important. (to Alan)  I need your number. 
Alan Shore: You have my number, Christine.  I haven’t changed i t. 
Christine Pauley: Alan, every lawsuit eventually comes down to a numb er. What’s your number?  
Alan Shore: 750,000. 
Christine Pauley: (laughs)   And I’m the insane one.  250,000 
Alan Shore: It’s too low.  
Christine Pauley: It’s more than fair.  She got other employment. 
Alan Shore: At less pay.  
Christine Pauley: The present-day value of 200—  
Alan Shore: That offer is rejected, Christine.  
Christine Pauley: I don’t know if I’m up to closing. I think I am. Bu t I don’t--. My client will only go up to 250. Alan 
and Christine stare at each other for a moment.  Please. 
Alan Shore: (slightly shakes his head)   That number won’t get it done, Christine.  Christine gets up and 
leaves.  9  
The next day, inside Sally’s courtroom trial.  The opposing attorney is finishing her closing. 
D.A. Huff: A man with felony priors for robbery and burglary.  But this time, he stole the wallet by mistake.  Su re.  
She sits down.  Sally stands up, turns around and s ees Walter Seymore looking at her, then turns 
around and begins her close.  
Sally Heep: One day, I was in my kitchen.  I think I was about 15.  And in came Fred, my big chocolate Lab. And 
in his mouth was a dead rabbit. The neighbor’s pet rabbit.  And I thought “This is it for Fred.”  If t hey find out he 
killed their adored pet, Animal Control would be do wn, and --.  So, I took the rabbit.  Washed him off  in the sink. 
Pulled out the blow dryer.  Got him all white and f luffy looking. And I snuck over to my neighbor’s ba ckyard and I 
put him back in his cage, hoping they’d think he di ed of natural causes.  That night my parents came i nto my 
room.  The neighbor’s pet rabbit had died three day s ago, they told me.  They buried him in the woods.  And 
some wacko evidently dug him up, washed him off, an d put him back in the cage. (A few jurors are smiling).  
But I remember thinking to myself the truth is not only stranger than fiction, but often less believab le.  And that’s 
what we have here, ladies and gentlemen.  The logic al version, I suppose, is that my client stole that  wallet.  
The less believable, but quite possibly true accoun t, is that he mistook it for his own.  Nobody, not one of us, can 
be sure it didn’t happen exactly the way Ramone Val esquez said it did. That’s reasonable doubt.  Walter 
Seymore is smiling.  Sally returns to her table and  sits down next to her client. 
 
Alan is in the kitchenette, staring down at his cup  of coffee.  Lori walks in. 
Lori Colson: People like to stare at their coffee a lot here.  
Alan Shore: All set? 
Lori Colson: Yep.  You like being a lawyer, Alan? 
Alan Shore: I do, actually.  You? 
Lori Colson: Yeah. Except for the days when the job is ugly.  Wh en you have to go against your instincts to be 
kind or compassionate. It’s important that she not close well.  Alan gives her a bit of a smirk. 
 
Inside the courtroom of Alan’s trial.  He is closin g. 
Alan Shore: Some people simply cannot let go. You love a person  so desperately. You perhaps begin to lose 
sight of reason.  And you begin to act unreasonably , perhaps out of control, even.  It’s possible Dani el Ralston 
had no control over his behavior.  Maybe he truly c ouldn’t stop pursuing Wendy Moore.  Maybe he had to  keep 
calling.  Had to schedule those lunches.  Had to see mingly stalk her, if you will.  He was in love with  her.  People 
in love lose their grip. At this point Alan turns and looks at Christine’s t able.   But what’s at issue here is her 
state of mind.  Her mental state.  Not Mr. Ralston’ s state of mind.  But Wendy’s.  Christine squirms in her 
chair a little bit.   Was she reasonably upset by this relentless pursuit ?  She’s a married woman with a family, 
trying to salvage her marriage and her boss keeps c alling. Keeps coming. Keeps coming. Keeps propositi oning 
her.  The fact that she once loved this man only ma kes it worse. More difficult. What choice did she r eally have 
but to leave?  Maybe that was his plan all the time .  He knew he couldn’t fire her.  Maybe that was hi s 
psychological game.  Where the only thing she could  really do in the end was get in her car, and drive  off.  He 
created a hostile working environment with repeated , unwelcomed sexual advances, ladies and gentlemen.  That 
is prima facie classic sexual harassment.   Alan turns from the jury and sits down at his table . Christine 
stands up to begin. 
Christine Pauley: Love happens in the workplace all the time. In fact , it’s where most affairs start. Most 
relationships.  It happens. So do breakups. As a wo man, I am offended by the onslaught of these lawsui ts.  As 
neutral as the language may be, sexual harassment l aw is gender biased. It exists to protect woman. It  feeds 
into the perception that women are weaker than.  It  goes all the way back to common law where women we re 
denied the right to enter into contracts because we  lacked mental capacity.  Today’s harassment law is  
designed to protect us from sexual banter in the wo rkplace because we just can’t take it.  I can take it.  Can 
you?  Can you? Do we really need to cleanse the wor kplace of all sexual expression so that it’ll be sa fe for us?  
These laws treat us as if we were either psychologi cally or emotionally impaired.   And I’m sick of it .  Are some 
cases legitimate?  Absolutely.  But here, this woma n is a grown up.  She entered into an adult consens ual 
relationship with her boss.  It ended.  Perhaps bum py. He’s hurt. He’s still in love. So she sues.  Sh e wasn’t 
fired. She is a college-educated vice president of a brokerage firm.  She’s 34 years old. She’s a prof essional.  
She’s here today to tell you that she can’t stick u p for herself.  She is here today trying to take ad vantage of a 
law that declares women to be the weaker sex.  Not for me, ladies and gentlemen. I wouldn’t have gotte n in my 
car and driven off.  I’d have sooner driven over hi m.  Alan chuckles.  Let’s treat these people—both of them—
as if they were grown-ups.   She sits down.    10   
Brad, Denny, Paul and Denny are in Judge’s Chambers .  
Judge Leslie Bishop: My own quick research reveals wild salmon, especial ly Atlantic salmon, are threatened 
with extinction. They’re an endangered species, whi ch means the environmental protections on that rive r have 
to stay in place. 
Brad Chase: Your honor, they’re not endangered if you count the  farmed salmon. 
Judge Leslie Bishop: I’m not counting the farmed salmon.  And the idea t o count them is absurd.  That river 
stays protected.  Your variance is officially pulle d. A permanent restraining order is now in effect. 
 
They’re leaving judge’s chambers and Paul is chidin g Brad. 
Paul Lewiston : I keep telling you you talk too fast.  You talk t oo damn fast. “America first.” “We’re a synthetic 
country.”  What’s wrong with you?   They stay behind to talk.  Denny follows Denny down  the hall. 
Denny Crane: The best man won in there. 
Denny Crane: You know. Dad. I’ve never really had a big trial to  speak of.  This is the--. For the last ten years o r 
so, I’ve pretended to be you. Through college. Law school. And, I always felt like whenever I’d go int o a 
courtroom, I’d kinda…channel you or something.  But  this is the first time I actually felt it.  I was Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane: Yes. You were.  Yes you were.  
 
Back to Alan’s courtroom 
Foreperson: On the matter of Moore versus Ralston, on the quest ion of liability, we find in favor of the plaintiff .  
We further order the defendant to pay damages in th e amount of $125,000. 
Alan Shore: (under his breath)  Damn it.  
Judge Paul Resnick: Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, thank you for you r time.  You are discharged.  
Alan Shore: (to Wendy)  I’m sorry. 
Wendy Moore: I got my verdict anyway.  Thank you.  They shake hands.   (to Lori) Thank you.  They shake 
hands. 
Lori Colson: You’re welcome. 
Christine is saying goodbye to her client and then turns towards Alan. 
Alan Shore: Congratulations, Christine.  You tried an excellent  case.  He shakes her hand.    
Christine Pauley: Alan?  I can and do accept that it’s over.  The thi ng is, while I was institutionalized the only 
person who wrote to me, who came to visit me, who c alled me, was you.  My world became quite two-
dimensional.   There was the hospital. And you. And  when I was suddenly faced with having to walk away  from 
both the hospital and you, it was more than I could ---.  But I am going to make it. 
Alan Shore: I have no doubt.  He takes her by the shoulders and smiles.   You tried an excellent case.  
Christine smiles a thank you.  We should eat at that wonderful Indian place some t ime. 
Christine Pauley: I’d like that.  They briefly kiss.   
 
Evening.  Alan and Denny stand on the balcony looki ng over the city. 
Denny Crane: You don’t think she’ll go Glenn Close on you, do yo u? 
Alan Shore: No.  Out of compulsive curiosity I always befriend my most colorful ex-girlfriends.   
Denny Crane: Beautiful woman, Glenn Close.  Always meant to have  sex with her. 
Sally is walking out onto the balcony. 
Sally Heep: Well.  I went with the rabbit. 
Alan Shore: Of what variety? 
Sally Heep: I told an urban legend story for my closing.  Invol ved a rabbit.  Got the jury right here (she points to 
the center of her palm).  
Alan Shore: And? 
Sally Heep: They came back in 32 minutes. Not guilty . 
Alan Shore: You’re kidding! 
Sally Heep: I thought we could celebrate. Like rabbits. 
Alan Shore: Your hutch or mine? 
Sally Heep: 9:00.  My hutch. Be there. (to Denny)  Sally Heep.  She turns to leave. Denny raises his glass to 
her.  
Denny Crane: Well, it seems we’re all winners today.  In court. In love.  
Alan Shore: You didn’t win in court today, remember?  Your side  lost.  
Denny Crane: Ooh, that’s right.  He was really something. You sh ould have seen him.  11  Alan Shore: May I ask, how does a man not see his son in 15 yea rs? 
Denny Crane: Oh, don’t start with me.  Denny sits in his chair.  
Alan Shore: I’m being curious. Not judgmental.  Alan sits in his chair.  Is that who Denny Crane is? 
Denny Crane:  (sighs)  He’s not my son. 
Alan Shore: What do you mean he’s not your son? 
Denny Crane: His mother slapped me with a paternity suit.  I set tled. She came back, about 10 years later with a 
guilty conscience and admitted that I wasn’t the fa ther.  Just deep pockets.  But I liked the kid. So I kept paying 
for his education and so forth. 
Alan Shore: Obviously he doesn’t know. 
Denny Crane: His mother said it would break his heart. He so lik ed being the son of Denny Crane. Hmmm.  
Who wouldn’t? 
Denny Crane: You’re not my father?  Denny is standing in the doorway and has obviously overhead this 
revelation.   I’m not your son?   Denny stands up.    I’m not your son.  
Denny Crane: Not by blood. 
Denny Crane: Then how? You didn’t raise me.  Who’s my father? 
Denny Crane: You’ll have to discuss that with your mother. 
Denny Crane: It’s all been a lie. 
Denny Crane: Hey. What wasn’t a lie was your performance in that  courtroom.  You’re a hell of a lawyer. You 
did channel me.  
Denny Crane: I—I gotta go. He turns and starts to walk away, then stops and tu rns around.  Sir?  Is it all 
right if I keep the name? 
Denny Crane: Of course. 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane.  He turns and leaves. 
 
Fade to black.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 