 1 Boston Legal  
A Greater Good 
Season 1, Episode 9 
Written by Peter Ocko 
© 2004 David E. Kelley Productions.  All Rights Res erved 
Airdate:  December 12, 2004 
Transcribed by Sheri for boston-legal.org [version updated June 14, 2006] 
 
Courtroom #1 
Mr. Milner:   It is also my expert opinion that the document an alysis is reliable as these handwriting samples are  
comparatively similar. 
Attorney:  I see.  Ah well, would you go into more depth . .  . 
Lori Colson:   I am so bored. 
Brad Chase:   Shhh. 
Lori Colson:   I need to get back to the office.  I have so much  work to do on the Meyers case. 
Mr. Milner:   The sample provided on the top contains the same content as the original on the bottom.  Namely, 
they are both the subject’s signature.  No pun inte nded.  chuckles   Namely. 
Attorney:  So, Mr. Millner, can we . . . 
Lori Colson:   This is actually killing me.  Part of me is dying . 
Brad Chase:   Shhh. 
Bomber:  I have a bomb. 
A chorus of gasps.  
Lori Colson:   This is better. 
Bomber:  Remember me, Judge? Fifteen to twenty for aggrava ted manslaughter? Well, I got out today.  And 
you know what? I’m still aggravated! 
Brad Chase arises, and approaches Bomber. 
Bomber:  Sit down. 
Brad Chase:   Do you mind? We’re trying to conduct a trial here . 
Bomber runs over to the witness chair, and grabs Mr . Milner by the jacket. 
Bomber:  Get over here! 
Mr. Milner whimpers. 
Bomber:  D—did you hear me?  I said I had a bomb! 
Brad Chase:   No, you don’t.  And here’s why.  A—You said mansl aughter, which means that you didn’t have 
the guts for murder one the first time around. 
Bomber:  What? 
Brad Chase:   B—If you’re clever enough to make that aggravatio n joke, you’re clever enough to know that 
threatening to have a bomb carries a much lesser se ntence than actually wearing one.  C—That coat is f airly 
svelte.  And D—If you really had a bomb, you wouldn ’t need to have a hostage.  Would you? 
Bomber:  I do have a bomb. 
Brad Chase:   Come on.  We’ve got two more expert witnesses to get through by lunch.  To Mr. Milner:   I’m 
assuming you could speed through your testimony jus t to keep up with our schedule. 
Mr. Milner:     Uh, huh. 
Bomber:  You sit down, or I’ll blow this thing! 
Brad Chase:   You don’t have a bomb. 
Bomber:  Yes, I do! 
Brad Chase:   No, you don’t. 
Bomber:  Yes, I do! 
Brad Chase:   Prove it. 
Judge Morgan Baker:   Mr. Chase, perhaps . . . 
Brad Chase:   I was a hostage negotiator as a Marine.  This man  does not have a bomb. 
Bomber:  I—I do too! 
Brad Chase:   You’re interrupting, sir. 
Judge Morgan Baker:   Mr. Chase . . . 
Brad Chase:   Show me the bomb. 
Bomber:  I’ll blow this thing. 
Judge Morgan Baker:   Mr. Chase.  2 Brad Chase:   Show it to me.  starts to walk toward Bomber  
Bomber:  I’m not gonna show you. 
Brad Chase:   now right in front of Bomber   I didn’t think so. 
Bomber:  Huh? Fine.   
Bomber opens his trench coat and reaches in, as Bra d Chase slugs him, knocking him out cold.  Judge 
arises to watch Brad Chase open the trench coat to reveal a large, home-made bomb strapped to his 
chest and abdomen.  A chorus of gasps, including Ju dge Morgan Baker, who collapses into his chair.  
Brad Chase:   What do you know? 
 
[credits] 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Denny Crane:   What’s that thing? 
Alan Shore:   wearing a Christmas tree star topper with multiple flashing light modes on his head   It’s an 
ornament.  Christmas tree ornament. 
Denny Crane:   Can’t go to court like that. 
Alan Shore:   Of course not.  worried smile   You okay, Denny. 
Denny Crane:   sighs   It’s this case.  It seems like I’ve done nothing else but work on it for the last three weeks. 
Alan Shore:   What in particular about the case is bothering yo u? 
Denny Crane:   I don’t know what it’s about.  I—it’s . . . well . . . If you, say, were going to briefly describe i t to 
someone who was clueless, what would you say? 
Alan Shore:   I’d say we represent a big drug company. 
Denny Crane:   Yes.  That’s the part I like. 
Alan Shore:   Then, I’d say they’re being sued by a woman who c laims she was wrongfully removed from the 
company’s clinical trial of a potent new diabetes m edicine. 
Denny Crane:   That’s where I lose track. 
Alan Shore:   Special pills make woman happy.  Company take pil ls away.  Woman sue to get back on special 
pills. 
Denny Crane:   Got it. 
Martin Jeffries:   entering   Denny. 
Denny Crane:   Martin.  Hey.  shaking his hand   Martin.  You remember Alan Shore. 
Martin Jeffries turns to Alan Shore just in time to  see the Christmas star blinking. 
Alan Shore:   It’s an ornament.  I head the office cheer commit tee. 
Martin Jeffries:   Since I received no late-night call last night, I  assume we didn’t settle. 
Denny Crane:   We informed your in-house counsel. 
Martin Jeffries:   I like to hear things from you.  I feel I have a direct relationship with you. 
Denny Crane:   We didn’t settle. 
Martin Jeffries:   I don’t really understand this.  Every legal opin ion I’ve gotten says the merits fall one-sidedly in  
our favor. 
Alan Shore:   Legal opinions only go to the law, Mr. Jeffries.  I had opportunity to view the plaintiff’s videotap ed 
deposition.  She comes off as an extremely sympathe tic and likable person. 
Martin Jeffries:   And? 
Alan Shore:   You don’t.  Our fear, and the plaintiff’s hope is  that the jury will like her and feel for her pain,  and 
attempt to alleviate said pain with millions and mi llions of your dollars. 
Martin Jeffries:   I was under the impression I hired attorneys who could employ reason and intellect to offset 
the emotion inuring to the plaintiff’s favor.  Did I hire the wrong law firm, Mr. Shore? 
Alan Shore:   Certainly not, sir.  You’ve hired the best. 
 
Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Lori Colson:   Paul.  showing him a DVD-ROM   The Meyers age discrimination case—we just got th e DVD-
ROM delivered.  Sixty five hundred pages of McNamar a documents.  Every useless document they could 
dump on here. 
Paul Lewiston:   Well, they’re probably not ready and this is mean t to slow us down. 
Lori Colson:   Right.  And they want to force us to ask for a co ntinuance because they know Judge Simmons 
won’t give them any.  3 Paul Lewiston:   Well, we won’t be asking for one.  Uh, Miss Heep?  Uh, Miss Wilson? We have a trial next 
week.  Lori will fill you in.  I want you to pore t hrough this document.  The likelihood is it contain s nothing 
relevant but we can’t take any chances.  Lori will tell you what to look for. 
Sally Heep:  I’m sorry.  Um, can you get somebody to take my pla ce on this, please? 
Paul Lewiston:   You have something else more pressing? 
Sally Heep:  No, but I prefer not to work on this case. 
Paul Lewiston:   Why not? 
Sally Heep:  It’s personal. 
Paul Lewiston:   You are making it professional. 
Sally Heep:  I’m—I’m—I’m just not—I—I—I’m uncomfortable working with Tara. 
Paul Lewiston:   Because? 
Sally Heep:  I used to sleep with Alan Shore, and now she does. 
Tara Wilson:   pointing at Lori Colson   And she wants to. 
Lori Colson:   I do not! 
 
Lori Colson’s Office 
Lori Colson opens the door and waves Tara Wilson in . 
Lori Colson:   How dare you make a remark to one of the  most senior partners of this firm that I want to s leep 
with another associate here? Even if I did want to sleep with Alan Shore, which I assure you I do not,  but even 
if your remark was truthful, it would not make it a ny less inappropriate. 
Tara Wilson:   You’re right.  I apologize. 
Lori Colson:   Do you bear some ill will towards me? 
Tara Wilson:   No.  I suppose I regressed to the childish defens e that everybody else is doing it. 
Lori Colson:   But I’m not doing it, Tara.  I’m not sleeping wit h Mr. Shore, which you very well know. 
Tara Wilson:   I only said you wanted to.  And again, I apologiz e.  My remark was, as you say, completely 
inappropriate, however accurate. 
Tara Wilson exits, Lori Colson mocking her last wor ds as she leaves. 
 
Courtroom #2 
Marybeth Hewitt:   I’ve had type II diabetes since I was 25.  It’s b een the same medicines pretty much the whole 
time. 
Atty. Greg Montero:   And when you were invited to participate in a cli nical trial of SV113, what did your daily 
regimen become? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   I took one pill in the morning when I woke up. 
Atty. Greg Montero:   That’s all? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   That was it.  I had more energy.  I was even losi ng weight.  And no more needles.  It was a 
godsend, until they took it away. 
Atty. Greg Montero:   And how did that happen? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   My doctor told me that the company had kicked me off the test.  He said that I had broken 
the rules of the trial, but I didn’t.  I didn’t do anything wrong. 
Atty. Greg Montero:   And after you were taken off the test? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   My health deteriorated again rapidly. 
Atty. Greg Montero:   Can you tell us your prognosis today? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   I’m dying.  I’ve got probably five to six years, unless something changes drastically. 
Alan Shore:   What reason did the company give for removing you  from the SV113 study? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   Noncompliance.  But I complied. 
Alan Shore:   You’re a heavy smoker.  Is that correct, Mrs. Hew itt? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   I quit. 
Alan Shore:   When did you quit, if I may ask? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   A week before the study. 
Alan Shore:   Just like that? Two packs a day, cold turkey? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   My life depended on it. 
Alan Shore:   Some of the doctors and clinicians, uh, smelled c igarette smoke on you during your exams. 
Marybeth Hewitt:   My husband’s a chain smoker.  It was his smoke th ey smelled on my clothes. 
Alan Shore:   Amazing.  You smoked two packs a day, you live wi th a chain smoker, and you’re able to just quit, 
cold turkey.  4 Atty. Greg Montero:   Objection. 
Judge Dale Wallace:   Sustained. 
Alan Shore:   Mrs. Hewitt, 177 million people in the world have  diabetes.  This drug study is the only way to get 
SV113—the drug you yourself called a godsend—approv ed for sale.  177 million people are counting on yo u to 
follow the rules, Mrs. Hewitt. 
Marybeth Hewitt:   Which I did. 
Alan Shore:   With the stakes being so enormously high, with so me 70 thousand people dying every year from 
diabetes, with a desperate need to develop a drug t hat can save those lives, you realize how important  it is for 
my client not to take any chances, don’t you? 
Marybeth Hewitt:   I followed all the rules. 
 
Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Denny Crane:   All in all, I don’t think she hurt us. 
Alan Shore:   She hurt us.  I saw the jury.  How badly she hurt  us . . . Where’s our expert? 
Denny Crane:   Should be waiting in the conference room. 
Alan Shore:   I’ll meet you there. 
Denny Crane:   Sally.  May I offer you one little piece of advic e? 
Sally Heep:  Okay. 
Denny Crane:   You’re an extremely beautiful young woman. 
Sally Heep:  Thanks for the tip. 
Denny Crane:   That’s not the advice.  The advice is be on the w are of lecherous senior partners who are 
looking for the slightest excuse to plant a big wet  one on you. 
Sally Heep:  Excuse me? 
Denny Crane:   They lurk.  And when beautiful women such as your self stand under the mistletoe . . . 
Sally Heep looks up at the mistletoe installed at t he top of the doorway under which she is standing. 
Alan Shore:   grabbing Denny Crane before he can make another mov e   Let’s go meet our expert, Denny. 
Denny Crane:   Mm, boy.  I had the blood flow going. 
Alan Shore:   No doubt. 
 
Conference Room at CP&S 
There is a beautiful woman in high heels serving he rself water while waiting. 
Denny Crane:   Dr. Gerard? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Yes. 
Denny Crane:   Denny Crane; single.  Alan Shore. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   holding out her hand to shake Alan Shore’s   Hello. 
Alan Shore:   Very nice to meet you. 
Alan Shore and Denny Crane nod at each other knowin gly. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Well, should we get started? 
Alan Shore:   We should.  I’m afraid it’s gonna be a very long night.  I’ll need to go over every inch of you with  a 
fine-tooth comb.  flustered   I beg your pardon.  Your testimony.  I’ll need to  go over your testimony with the 
comb. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Where are we going to do this? 
Denny Crane:   Right here. 
And a little peacock fight breaks out, as the “boys ” elbow each other behind their backs, until Dr. G 
looks at them.  Then, they look rather well-behaved , and Alan Shore tucks his right hand into his 
jacket, the height of decorum, as usual, while Denn y Crane smiles charmingly. 
 
The Buddha Bar 
Tara Wilson:   talking on her cell phone   It’s not my case, Renee.  It’s Lori’s.  I have no  idea where she is.  
Hang on.  To Brad Chase:   Do you know where Lori is? 
Brad Chase:  No.  I gotta run.  I got that dinner thing. 
Tara Wilson:   Oh, go. 
Brad Chase:  Need a ride anywhere? 
Tara Wilson:   No, thanks.  My car’s in the garage.  All right, so what’s the big emergency? Well if you have him 
on the phone, then ask him.  5 Atty. Barr:   also talking on his cell phone   I don’t want anything.  I’m offering.  Since we turned over tha t CD 
last second, we won’t oppose a continuance if you p eople want it. 
Tara Wilson:   Say you need to page Lori, ask if she can call hi m later, and then get his cell phone number. 
Atty. Barr:   Yeah, that’ll be great.  My number’s (617) 555-01 94.  Thanks. 
Tara Wilson:   Well, well, well. 
Atty. Barr:   Can I get a beer? 
Tara Wilson takes her beer glass with her, walks to ward AD Atty, and bumps into him, pouring the beer 
on him. 
Tara Wilson:   Oh! 
Atty. Barr:   Oh! Fantastic. 
Tara Wilson:   Oh, I’m terribly sorry. 
Atty. Barr:   It’s okay. 
Tara Wilson:   helping him wipe the beer off his clothes   How embarrassing.  I’ll pay for the dry cleaning.   I 
assure you. 
Atty. Barr:   It’s okay, really. 
Tara Wilson smiles, laughing lightly. 
 
Conference Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore:   So, besides Ms. Hewitt, there were 56 other peopl e removed from the study? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   For a drug of this magnitude, we have to be extre mely cautious. 
Alan Shore:   But what motivated your caution? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard  looks evasive. 
Alan Shore:   Please tell me it was more than a hunch.  After a ll, these people do suffer from a crippling, life-
threatening disease, Doctor. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   As do I. 
Alan Shore:   I’m very sorry. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   I understand the promise of a drug like this on a  very personal level, Mr. Shore.  But if it 
endangers people . . . 
Alan Shore:   How does it endanger people? How are these 57 peo ple endangered by SV113? Fifty-seven—
that’s an exceptionally large number of people to p urge, isn’t it, Doctor? How were these people endan gered? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   They weren’t.  Marybeth Hewitt and the 56 others were on a different drug.  It was a slight 
variation from SV113 that we had only begun to inve stigate. 
Alan Shore:   These people, they knew they were on this other d rug? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   No. 
Alan Shore:   So you gave an experimental, unapproved drug to 5 7 people, and told them they were taking 
something else? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   But as soon as we became aware of the side effect s . . . 
Alan Shore:   The headaches? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   thinking before talking   There was onset of acute liver damage at about 6 weeks.  
There was one prior subject who went first, and com plications . . . Please don’t look at me as if . . . 
Alan Shore:   What could possibly have impelled you to delude t hese people? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   You can’t understand. 
Alan Shore scoffs. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   It takes years to get a drug approved.  And when you spend your life . . . I thought—the 
company thought that we had the next polio vaccine . . . or penicillin. 
Alan Shore:   Except your penicillin turned out to be a poison.  
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   But as soon as we discovered it, the company shut  the study down.  That’s why Mrs. 
Hewitt was taken off the drug she thinks was SV113— to prevent liver failure. 
 
Buddha Bar 
Atty. Barr:   So you’re a therapist? 
Tara Wilson:   De facto  therapist.  I’m really a flight attendant.  But ev erybody tells me their problems. 
Atty. Barr:   Oh, do you solve them? 
Tara Wilson:   I do, actually. 
Atty. Barr:   Well, tell me mine. 
Tara Wilson:   I’m sorry?  6 Atty. Barr:   My problem.  What am I lamenting at this very mom ent? 
Tara Wilson:   I’m embarrassed to say, actually. 
Atty. Barr:   Uh, uh.  I insist.  Tell me. 
Tara Wilson:   You’re wishing your girlfriend looked like me. 
Atty. Barr:   Uh, keep going. 
Tara Wilson:   You hate your job. 
Atty. Barr:   Which is? 
Tara Wilson:   I want to say accountant.  But I’m gonna to say l awyer. 
Atty. Barr:   rolling his eyes and laughing   Oh. 
Tara Wilson laughs.  
Atty. Barr:   Am—am I that obvious? 
Tara Wilson:   I meet lawyers all the time.  They fly a lot.  Th ey’re constantly in distress over all the horrible 
things they have to do for their horrible clients.  What are you working on right now? 
Atty. Barr:   A horrible case for a horrible client. 
Tara Wilson laughs. 
Atty. Barr:   It’s, ah, age discrimination. 
Tara Wilson:   Mm.  Plaintiff or defense. 
Atty. Barr:   Defense. 
Tara Wilson:   Ooh, bad boy. 
Atty. Barr:   Mm, hmm.  Indeed. 
Tara Wilson laughs. 
 
Conference Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Whistle-blower? 
Alan Shore:   Yes.  Now, there are all sorts of protections to avail yourself of, should you decide you . . . 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Hold on a second.  You’re advising a witness to t urn state’s evidence against your own 
client? 
Alan Shore:   I am. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Look.  I was the one who pushed the study.  I was  the one who put those people on that 
drug. 
Alan Shore:   And I suspect you were motivated by the drug’s pr omise, while your employer was motivated by 
greed. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Can’t you get disbarred for advising me to . . . 
Alan Shore:   Undoubtedly.  And should you lose your license, w e could run off to Bali together and become 
bartenders. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   My life is here, in medicine. 
Alan Shore:   Yes.  And you are in a unique position to remind your employer they, too, are in the business of 
medicine, not simply profit.  You need to blow the whistle.  And what’s more, you want to. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Denny Crane is playing piano and singing “It’s a Ho lly Jolly Christmas.” 
Denny Crane:   “It’s a holly jolly Christmas, best time of the y ear.  I dunno if there’ll be snow, but have a cuppa  
cheer.  It’s a holly jolly Christmas, and when you walk down the street, say hello to friends you know , and 
everyone you meet.” sees Alan entering   Hey! 
Alan Shore:   Denny? 
Denny Crane:   Set to go? 
Alan Shore:   What are you doing? 
Denny Crane:   Oh, there’s an office Christmas party next week.  I do a number.  It’s good for morale.  Helps 
get me laid.  Are we off to court? 
Alan Shore:   Actually, I have a feeling court won’t be going f orward today. 
Denny Crane:   What do you mean? Did something happen? Was I in the room when it happened? 
Alan Shore:   It seems our client is guilty of a little noncomp liance as well.  The actual test that . . . We repr esent 
big drug company. 
Denny Crane:   I’m with you. 
Alan Shore:   Big drug company tell patients they take one pill  while slipping them another. 
Denny Crane:   You know this how?  7 Alan Shore:   Evidently, our expert witness comes armed not onl y with details but a conscience.  She told me.  I 
believe she plans to tell the F.D.A. 
Denny Crane:   Ohh.  Whistle-blower.  comes around the piano to the couch on which Alan S hore is 
sitting   Did you tell her to whistle-blow? 
Alan Shore:   I might have mentioned it. 
Denny Crane:   Do you know how much this client is worth to this  firm and to me personally? 
Alan Shore:   Nuts.  I knew there was something I forgot to con sider. 
Denny Crane:   Where is this woman? 
Alan Shore:   Hopefully with the U.S. Attorney by now. 
Assistant:   Oh, I’m sorry, uh, Mr. Shore, there’s a Dr. Gerar d waiting in reception. 
Denny Crane:   Send her in. 
Alan Shore:   That’s all right.  I’ll go and greet her. 
Denny Crane:   Send the woman in here. 
Alan Shore:   Here’s good. 
 
Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Tara Wilson is exiting the elevator. 
Lori Colson:   Oh, Tara.  We have a pretrial conference set on M cNamara at two.  How are you and Sally doing 
with the stuff? 
Tara Wilson:   Remember the document that said McNamara was inco rporated in “nineteen efficiency-three”? 
We thought it was a typo? 
Lori Colson:   Yeah. 
Tara Wilson:   Well, code broken.  They had a plan called the “F orty Factor,” which was designed to phase out 
workers who were 40 and older. 
Lori Colson:   And replace them with younger employees who would  cost the company less. 
Tara Wilson:   Right.  They actually described the plan in memor anda which were archived on the company’s 
hard drives. 
Lori Colson:   Gotta love the hubris. 
Tara Wilson:   But they then got nervous and did a search and re place to substitute the word “efficiency” for 
“forty.” 
Lori Colson:   And “nineteen forty-three” became “nineteen effic iency-three.” 
Tara Wilson:   Exactly. 
Lori Colson:   How did you find this out? 
Tara Wilson:   I had drinks with opposing counsel last night.  Q uite a talker. 
Lori Colson:   Wait a second.  He admitted this to you? 
Tara Wilson:   Well, actually, he admitted it to a flight attend ant.  He didn’t know that I was an attorney for the  
other side. 
Lori Colson looks shocked. 
Tara Wilson:   We’re not smiling.  Why are we not smiling? 
Lori Colson:   Tara, we can’t use this information. 
Tara Wilson:   I beg your pardon? 
Lori Colson:   You tricked another attorney into violating privi lege.  You can’t do that. 
Tara Wilson:   Last week, you impersonated a doctor. 
Lori Colson:   Uh! First, that was different.  Second, the stake s were life and death. 
Tara Wilson:   Lori! 
Lori Colson:   And third, I was wrong.  In retrospect, I would n ever do it again. 
Tara Wilson:   Well, we have the information, Lori.  So if it’s a matter of ethics, we absolutely have to tell the 
client that we have it. 
As Tara Wilson takes a bite out of her muffin and g oes into her office, Lori Colson sighs, and walks 
away. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   I just don’t think I can do it. 
Alan Shore:   Because? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Alan, these people have been very good to me for 10 years.  8 Alan Shore:   Now, by “people,” you mean these corporate people  who jeopardize public health and safety on a 
massive scale in order to line their pockets? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   They were convinced we had a possible cure based on my representations.  I would as 
soon blow the whistle on myself rather than . . . 
Alan Shore:   Do that then. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   And what good would come of it? Really? 
Denny Crane:   May I express a thought? I so rarely get one.  An d I should preface this by admitting that I’m so 
far up the ass of big business, I view the world as  one giant colon.  You’re right to prioritize loyal ty, Doctor.  
Loyalties count for something. 
Alan Shore:   Denny, please don’t . . . 
Denny Crane:   I’m speaking, Alan.  Doctors like science, right?  They do the math.  Well, do the math on 
whistle-blowing.  Nice concept in theory.  Appeals to the altruistic inner self and all that. 
Alan Shore starts to object. 
Denny Crane:   But whistle-blowers end up penniless and ostraciz ed.  This thing’ll take years to get to court, 
while your life will be ruined tomorrow. 
Alan Shore:   Denny, I . . . 
Denny Crane:   And if Alan Shore suggests that you won’t get hur t far worse than your company, he’s lying. 
Paul Lewiston:   opens the door, stepping in   What’s going on? 
Alan Shore:   Our client is violating at least a half a dozen c riminal laws by secretly testing an unapproved 
drug—which causes liver failure, by the way—on unwi tting human guinea pigs.  Dr. Gerard is considering  
whether to go public.  I’m for it, Denny’s against.   Do you have a vote? You seem like a man with a sc intilla of 
morality. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Alan, my vote’s the only one that counts, and I’m  not going public. 
Alan Shore:   You say that as if you have a choice, Doctor.  Yo u see, the only way our client wins here is with 
your testimony.  So, the clerk will swear you in.  You’ll take an oath to God, but as a scientist, you  are bound to 
an even higher standard.  To believe in God, all yo u need is faith.  To believe in science, you need t o see the 
truth.  You need to speak the truth.  Am I right? I f asked certain questions under oath, you will answ er truthfully, 
because that’s who you are. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   You don’t know me.  And you would never ask me qu estions that would torpedo your own 
case. 
Alan Shore:   Ah.  It seems it’s you that doesn’t know me. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard picks up her coat and purse and e xits. 
Alan Shore:   Isn’t it exciting? 
 
Lori Colson’s Office 
Brad Chase:  It’s absolutely unethical, Tara, for God sakes! 
Tara Wilson:   Please don’t lecture me. 
Brad Chase:  Hey! There’s nothing wrong with a lecture when it’s  called for.  Attorneys at Crane, Poole & 
Schmidt do not go undercover as stewardesses to cir cumvent privilege.  It is fraud.  It is wrong.  It is dishonest.  
It holds every member of this firm up to disrepute.  
Lori Colson:   Breathe. 
Brad Chase:  And what’s more, it hurts other clients at this fir m—mine, Paul’s, Lori’s. 
Tara Wilson:   How? 
Lori Colson:   Breathe. 
Brad Chase:  stage breath   Our reputation for fair dealing is at play at eve ry settlement conference, every 
motion, every trial.  If that reputation is comprom ised, the stain runs to all cases, not just the . .  . 
Lori Colson:   Breathe. 
Brad Chase:  Will you stop telling me to breathe! I know how and  when to breathe! 
Tara Wilson:   This is about Alan Shore.  This is about some not -so-latent hostility . . . 
Lori Colson:   You’re out of line! 
Tara Wilson:   You’re out of line! You fancy the pants off Alan Shore, so as long as we’re preaching honesty, 
let’s be truthful about that. 
Lori Colson:   You know something, Tara.  This does involve Alan .  What happened in that bar last night? You 
heard opposing counsel on his cell phone, you sense d an incredible opportunity, and you asked yourself , 
“What would Alan Shore do?” and you likely did what  he would’ve done. 
Tara Wilson:   Oh, and you’ve never done that—say, last week?  9 Lori Colson:   No, I did.  And as I said, I was wrong.  That’s a ll.  You can go. 
Tara Wilson:   arising   What are you gonna do? 
Lori Colson:   Haven’t decided. 
Tara Wilson:   Well, you can’t not use the . . . 
Lori Colson:   I haven’t decided, Tara.  You’re dismissed. 
Tara Wilson exits. 
Brad Chase:  loosening his tie   Well, I’m sorry I lost my cool.  But you handled that perfectly. 
Lori Colson:   Thank you.  Did that have anything to do with Ala n? 
Brad Chase:  How does he do it? No matter what I do, no matter w hat anyone else does, it’s always about 
Alan. 
Lori Colson:   laughs   It’s just a question. 
Brad Chase:  I should be the example for the young associates ar ound here, not him. 
Lori Colson:   Well, Tara’s Alan’s girlfriend. 
Brad Chase:  Why is that? I mean why is she interested in him? I  ask you. 
Lori Colson:   Do you fancy Tara, Brad? 
Brad Chase:  No, I’m just speaking in general terms.  All the wo men here . . . 
Lori Colson:   Yeah, you keep saying, “all the women,” but, who specifically, Brad? 
Brad Chase:  Look, you’re missing the point. 
Lori Colson:   Okay.  And the point is? 
Brad Chase:  I diffuse a human bomb.  Does anyone say, “Oh, are you okay, Brad?” Or “Nice job saving lives, 
Brad.” No.  It’s “Tara circumvented privilege becau se she’s sleeping with Alan.” 
Lori Colson:   I’m the only one talking about Tara and privilege .  Is this about me?  We’re buddies, Brad.  Talk to  
me. 
Brad Chase:  Okay.  I’d like to be more than buddies.  I don’t b ring it up because I sense it’s something that 
you’re not interested in pursuing. 
Lori Colson:   Okay. 
Brad Chase:  Is it something you’d like to pursue? 
Lori Colson:   Um.  No. 
Brad Chase:  Right.  Anyway, you handled the meeting well. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Alan Shore:   You surprise me, Denny.  I thought you’d be with me on this. 
Denny Crane:   There’s a deeper principle involved here, Alan. 
Alan Shore:   Which is? 
Denny Crane:   Fishing.  There’s a fishing lodge in British Colu mbia.  It’s called Nimmo Bay.  Best fishing lodge 
in the world.  In the Great Bear Rain Forest. 
Alan Shore:   How does this lodge affect . . . 
Denny Crane:   Want to buy it.  Costs lots of money.  If I lose this client, I might not be able to buy it. 
Alan Shore:   You have plenty of money. 
Denny Crane:   Yes, to buy other things.  This case, this client  is earmarked for this fishing lodge. 
Alan Shore:   Well, if I can’t convince you, I guess I can’t co nvince you. 
Denny Crane:   Alan, I’ll ask Dr. Gerard the questions this afte rnoon. 
Alan Shore:   I’ve prepared the direct. 
Denny Crane:   I’ll ask her the questions. 
Alan Shore:   I’m questioning the doctor. 
Denny Crane:   No, you aren’t. 
Alan Shore:   Yes, I am. 
Denny Crane:   No, you aren’t. 
Alan Shore:   Yes, I am. 
Denny Crane:   No. 
Alan Shore:   Yes. 
Denny Crane:   No. 
Alan Shore:   Yes. 
Paul Lewiston:   entering   This time I will cast a vote.  Let me make this s imple for you, Mr. Shore. 
Alan Shore:   Please call me Alan.  I feel we’ve grown close.  10  Paul Lewiston:   You will be present in court at the table because  your sudden absence would send a strange 
message to the jury that might compromise our case,  but Denny will ask the questions.  If you attempt to ask 
the witness anything at all, you will be fired. 
Alan Shore:   There’s a legal term for this.  Ah, yes.  Oo-oo-o o-ooh. 
Paul Lewiston:   This is not puffery on my part, Mr. Shore.  I hav e spoken with other senior partners.  We are in 
agreement.  The votes are in.  If you attempt to un dermine our case in any way, your employment will b e 
terminated. 
Alan Shore:   In that event, I will go to cable. 
Paul Lewiston looks at Denny Crane, who gives him a  stage wink. 
Alan Shore:   Denny, you and I should go open our own firm. 
Denny Crane:   I’ll ask the questions, Alan. 
Alan Shore:   I’ll leave you with this one last thought then.  Denny Crane. 
 
The Law Library at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Brad Chase is paging through a law book. 
Lori Colson:   Hey. 
Brad Chase:  Hey. 
Lori Colson:   The lawyer from McNamara, the guy Tara duped—he’l l be in here at two.  I’ve summoned Tara 
as well.  I’ll try to iron things out a little. 
Brad Chase:  That’s good. 
Lori Colson:   If you could make it, then . . . 
Brad Chase:  Fine; 2 pm. 
Lori Colson:   Would you mind looking at me for a second? 
Brad Chase turns away from the book and looks up at  Lori Colson. 
Lori Colson:   You and I have a big murder trial scheduled for n ext week.  Are we gonna be okay? 
Brad Chase:  We’re fine. 
Lori Colson:   Do you plan to speak to me in Marine Talk forever ? 
Brad Chase:  No, sir, sir. 
Lori Colson:   You’re a great guy.  You’re a smart guy, an attra ctive guy.  Any girl would . . . 
Brad Chase:  Meeting’s at two. 
Lori Colson:   Right.  Two. 
Brad Chase goes back to his book, and Lori Colson e xits. 
 
Courthouse 
Denny Crane and Alan Shore are entering the buildin g at the metal detector. 
Alan Shore:   Do you even know what to ask? 
Denny Crane:   Did she examine the plaintiff? Does she feel the plaintiff complied with the study protocol? She’ll 
answer yes or no, we’ll get in a bunch of rhetoric about the need for safeguards, and we’ll go on to 
cheesesteak. 
Alan Shore:   And you can live with yourself.  successfully passes the screening, and walks away,  smiling 
knowingly  
Denny Crane:   Denny Crane. 
Now Denny Crane steps through the metal detector, a nd the alarm sounds.  Alan Shore smiles and 
keeps walking. 
Security Guard:   Arms out, please.   
The security guard runs the wand over Denny Crane, and it sounds, also.  Denny Crane pulls an ice 
pick out of one of his pockets. 
Denny Crane:   Oh, this isn’t mine.  Why would I be carrying aro und an ice pick? 
Security Guard:   Please empty out all your pockets, sir. 
Denny Crane:   Alan! 
Alan Shore is walking away, turning down another ha llway. 
Security Guard:   You’ll need to open your briefcase, sir. 
Denny Crane:   Do you know who I am? 
Security Guard:   You’ll need to open your case. 
Denny Crane opens his briefcase to find a very larg e knife and a picture of himself with Saddam 
Hussein waving a rifle.  11  Denny Crane:   Alan! 
Security Guard:   Can you step this way, sir? 
Denny Crane:   What? Are gonna check my shoes for bombs? 
Security Guard:   Sir, it’s a federal offense to joke about possess ing explosives at a security checkpoint. 
Denny Crane:   I’ve gotta get upstairs. 
Security Guard:   Take off your shoes, sir. 
 
Courtroom #2 
Martin Jeffries:   Where’s Denny? 
Alan Shore:   He got held up.  Not to worry. 
Judge Dale Wallace:   Mr. Shore, are we ready to proceed? 
Alan Shore:   We are, your Honor.  The offense calls Dr. Amanda  Gerard. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard reluctantly rises, walking to the  witness stand. 
Alan Shore:   We’re at the part where you swear under oath. 
Fire alarm. 
Judge Dale Wallace:   Okay, let’s evacuate in an orderly fashion, pleas e. 
Alan Shore is sniffing the air and smells not smoke , but a big fat Denny Crane rabbit. 
 
Courthouse Hallway 
Security Guard:   putting the fire alarm switch back in the “off” pos ition   It is against the law to pull fire 
alarms, sir. 
Denny Crane:   My hand slipped.  Tell Judge Wallace in Division 3, I need to see him in his chambers now. 
 
Judge Wallace’s Chambers 
Judge Dale Wallace:   What kind of nonsense is this? You put an ice pic k in his pocket and a picture of Saddam 
Hussein? You pull a fire alarm? 
Denny Crane:   We’re at odds as to how to proceed with the witne ss. 
Judge Dale Wallace:   Yes.  I heard that.  You’re supposed to be adults , for God’s sake.  You’re lawyers.  And 
on the same side at that! 
Alan Shore:   Your Honor, there are unusual circumstances in pl ay.  I’m interested in truth and justice.  My 
colleague favors a fishing lodge. 
Judge Dale Wallace:   Look, I don’t give a damn what your differences a re.  First off, your firm is fined $50,000. 
Denny Crane:   What? 
Judge Dale Wallace:   Second, whatever either of you do in that courtro om, you both get held responsible.  You 
understand me? Third, Mr. Crane, since you’re the n amed partner, and it is your client, I’ll let you h ave the 
floor. 
Alan Shore:   Your Honor, I have prepared . . . 
Judge Dale Wallace:   You will keep your mouth shut, Mr. Shore! Now, le t’s get back inside. 
 
Conference Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Tara Wilson enters to find Lori Colson, Brad Chase,  and Atty. Barr preparing to start their conference .  
Lori Colson:   Please have a seat, Tara. 
Atty. Barr:   Tara.  All right, what’s—what’s going on? 
Lori Colson:   We have a situation, Mr. Barr.  Tara is an attorn ey who works for this firm.  Thinking she worked 
for the airlines, you gave her information about an  efficiency factor employed by your client.  This w ould be 
considered privileged information. 
Atty. Barr:   I never revealed who my client was. 
Lori Colson:   Oh, we already knew who the client was. 
Atty. Barr:   Oh, my God.  Oh, my God. 
Lori Colson:   Both you and Miss Wilson—that’s her real last nam e—Wilson—both you and she have committed 
serious violations.  To Atty. Barr:   You would likely lose your job and get a suspensi on.  To Tara Wilson:   You 
would get worse.  It would be in the best interest of all if this situation didn’t become public.  My problem, as 
Tara correctly points out, is having the informatio n.  I have an obligation to at least tell my client s, who 
undoubtedly would elect to use it.  But I also have  an obligation to safeguard privilege, even when it ’s on the 
other side, so, as I’ve said, we’ve got a situation .  Where we last left off in settlement discussions , our number  12  was 3.2 million.  Yours was 2.1.  The deal probably  makes somewhere in the middle.  My proposal to you , Mr. 
Barr, is we settle it at three. 
Atty. Barr:   Well, I don’t think I could ever sell it. 
Lori Colson:   You sell it by telling your client and colleagues  that the opposing side knows about the efficiency 
factor.  We’ve broken the code.  How we found out, we won’t reveal.  That protects you.  It protects T ara. 
Atty. Barr:   And you profit from her deception. 
Lori Colson:   We profit somewhat from her deception, combined w ith your stupidity.  But if we really wanted to 
exploit this, we’d go to trial and tell a jury, whi ch, technically, I should advise my clients to do.  Yes, our side 
profits some.  Your side gets off with a pretty mil d number, given the smoking gun.  And you two get o ff with 
your careers.  Now, if you have a better proposal, I’m listening. 
 
Courtroom #2 
Alan Shore is sitting in second chair; Paul Lewisto n enters and sits in the visitor’s gallery. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   It wasn’t just my determination, but the consensu s of all the treating doctors.  Mrs. Hewitt 
was smoking. 
Denny Crane:   And others were excluded too, right? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Yes, 56 others.  It is common to weed out subject s as you go along in order to protect the 
integrity of the study. 
Denny Crane:   And this was all about the integrity of the study ? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Yes. 
Denny Crane:   I believe you.  You strike me as an honest woman.   Do you believe in God, Doctor? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   I do. 
Denny Crane:   “God is my witness.” That’s what it says in the o ath.  I like to think God watches over me, too, 
except, of course, in the privacy of my bedroom com mitting lewd acts. 
Judge Dale Wallace:   Mr. Crane! 
Denny Crane:   Uh, you’re a scientist, right, Doctor? You believ e in facts, the truth? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Yes. 
Denny Crane:   Good.  Will you tell the court exactly why Marybe th Hewitt was removed from the trial of 
SV113? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   I just did. 
Denny Crane:   You said smoking.  The plaintiff obviously believ es that to be a pretext.  I’m asking you to 
declare one more time—before God, judge, Mr. Shore,  me—the truth.  Why was she taken off the study? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   She was taken off a different study. 
Denny Crane:   Excuse me? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Mrs. Hewitt unknowingly was part of a secret test  involving a drug unapproved for study.  
When it was discovered that this drug caused liver failure, she and the 56 others on it were taken off . 
Denny Crane:   Ah, your Honor, this is obviously an unexpected d evelopment.  I need some time to confer with 
my client. 
 
Courthouse Conference Room 
Denny Crane:   I thought she’d stick to the story.  I threw the biggest softball I could right down the middle of t he 
plate.  All she had to do was reemphasize it was sm oking. 
Martin Jeffries:   What happens now? 
Denny Crane:   What happens now? The peat moss hits the fan, you  lying bastard.  We’re dead. 
Paul Lewiston:   Did you elicit that testimony intentionally? 
Denny Crane:   What? Of course not! You know me, Paul.  I’m not what I once was. 
 
Courthouse Hallway 
Dr. Amanda Gerard is walking toward the exit. 
Alan Shore:   Doctor. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Please don’t say you’re proud of me. 
Alan Shore:   They’re going to bring criminal charges against y ou.  How about if I say I’ll defend you? 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   Really? And what’s my defense? 
Alan Shore:   You were misguided by the best and the worst of i ntentions.  This will all be over with in a year. 
Dr. Amanda Gerard:   A year is too long.  My liver is failing.  I was the first subject.  I began the trial ahead of 
the others.  That’s how we discovered the side effe cts.  A year is too long for me, but thanks for the  offer.  13   
Balcony Scene 
Denny Crane:   “It’s a holly jolly Christmas.  It’s the best . .  . readjusting his pitch   It’s the best , , , it’s the . . . 
oh, screw it.  Mm.  “It’s a holly . . .” 
Alan Shore:   Nice performance today, Denny. 
Denny Crane:   I don’t know what you’re talking about. 
Alan Shore:   You could’ve ever so slightly tipped me off.  Wou ld’ve saved a lot of aggravation. 
Denny Crane:   Oh, please.  If I had included you with so much a s a wink, you’d be canned. 
Alan Shore:   We lost the client. 
Denny Crane:   Well, there are lesser fishing lodges. 
Alan Shore:   No repercussions from Lewiston? 
Denny Crane:   I’m Denny Crane.  As far as he knows, I play it s traight.  You know, they can never tell whether I 
know what I’m doing of not. 
Alan Shore:   Yes.  Can you tell? 
Denny Crane:   Not really.  Every once in a while, just to keep ‘em guessing . . . putting his cigar in his right 
ear  . . . I stick a cigar in my ear.  Do I look silly?  Try it. 
Alan Shore puts his cigar in his left ear. 
Denny Crane:   sighs   We look good together. 
Alan Shore:   Yes, we do. 
 
Notes: 
IMDb lists Patrick O’Connor as “Expert Witness,” en d credits names him “Irwin Middleman,” but he is cl early 
called “Mr. Milner” on the DVD, so that is the name  used. 
 
IMDb lists Benjamin (John) Parillo as “Andrew Forbe s,” but he is clearly called “Mr. Barr” on the DVD,  so that is 
the name used. 
 
IMDb lists Ben Bode as “Atty. Greg Montero;” the re maining unnamed attorney is the plaintiff’s attorne y in the 
drug study case, so that is the name used. 