 1 Boston Legal 
It Girls and Beyond  
Season 1, Episode 13 
Written by Jonathan Shapiro and David E. Kelley 
© 2005 David E. Kelley Productions. All Rights Rese rved. 
Broadcast: January 23, 2005 
Transcribed by Imamess of JSMP for JSMP and Boston- Legal.org 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Lori Colson is in her office. Brad Chase is with 
her. 
Lori Colson: The trial starts tomorrow? 
Brad Chase: I can bring you up to speed on it. The facts are st raight forward. 
Lori Colson: And why can’t Tara do it? 
Brad Chase: Well… Tara’s a junior associate. This trial’s gonna  to be in the news, 
it’s hardly the kind of case that…  
Lori Colson: Brad! It isn’t the case so much as it is the client ? Right? And it isn’t 
who she is, so much as what she is, right? What is s he Brad? He doesn’t answer. 
Can’t you even say the word? 
Brad Chase: I can say it. 
Lori Colson: Well, what is she Brad? 
Brad Chase: She’s a… homosexual. 
Lori Colson: And what’s the word for a female homosexual? 
Brad Chase: Lesbian. 
Lori Colson: I couldn’t really hear that. 
Brad Chase: She’s a lesbian. 
Lori Colson: Hah! You don’t wanna do the case because your clien t’s a lesbian? 
Brad Chase: Lori, this is a high profile case. I’ve worked my e ntire life to associate 
with decency and what is good for America. 
Lori Colson: And lesbians are bad for America? 
Brad Chase: They have bad values. Reflects poorly on all of us.  
Lori Colson: As a nation? He sighs. Now would you like to tell me the real reason? 
Brad Chase: What do you mean? 
Lori Colson: I know for a fact you’ve represented gay clients be fore. 
Brad Chase: Not on television. Not in the news. 
Lori Colson: Brad, we’re friends. Level with me. What is it about  this particular 
lesbian? 
Brad Chase: I’m attracted to her. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, at the morning staff m eeting in the conference. 
Alan Shore: Why does Shirley get to skip the staff meetings? 
Paul Lewiston: She’s got a trial in New York later this week so sh e has a busy day. 
Brad Chase: Some of us have trials today, so if you don’t mind,  I’d like to cut out. 
Lori Colson: What’s your case about, Brad? 
Alan Shore: What is it about? 
Brad Chase: It involves interference with contractual relations . 
Alan Shore: You mean… lesbians? 
Paul Lewiston: Where are you? 
Brad Chase: Today they’re calling Tracy to testify that her ex- lover was… 
Alan Shore: Lesbian, ex-lover. 
Brad Chase: ... to testify that Tracy was scamming her for mone y. Tracy was in fact 
not an actual bonified…  
Alan Shore: Lesbian? 
Brad Chase: You like saying it? 
Alan Shore: I do. 
Brad Chase: Say it again! 
Alan Shore: Lesbian. 
Brad Chase: Keep going.  2 Alan Shore: Lesbian. Lesbian. Lesbian. All together now! 
All: Lesbian! 
Alan Shore: I also like to watch. How many people have…  
Paul Lewiston: All right, that’s enough, this is a staff meeting. I’ll ask you all to 
conduct yourselves appropriately and professionally . 
Catherine Piper: She comes in with a plate of cookies.  Cookies everyone! 
Nourishment is most important in the morning. 
Paul Lewiston: Who is this woman? 
Catherine Piper: Take two Tara, you’re a rail. 
Paul Lewiston: Who is this woman? 
Catherine Piper: The ones on the left have a little bran. To help ou r older lawyers 
with their routine. 
Paul Lewiston: Who is this woman? 
Catherine Piper: I’m Catherine Piper. I’m Alan’s new assistant. My! Don’t you have 
an interesting face? 
Paul Lewiston: We are in the middle of a staff meeting. 
Catherine Piper: No need to be snippy, Dear. Especially since I come  bearing 
treats. You never get a second chance to make a fir st impression. To Lori. You 
certainly make one. All that bleach. 
Paul Lewiston: Ma’m? You will have to leave. 
Catherine Piper: I’m beginning to not like you. 
Denny Crane: Well! If you’ll excuse me, I have a trial myself. 
Paul Lewiston: You have a trial? 
Denny Crane: Yes, tomorrow morning. I’ve gotta go meet with my c lient. 
Paul Lewiston: What kind of trial? 
Denny Crane: Criminal. It’s a doctor who did… something… against  the law. 
Paul Lewiston: Who else is with you on this trial? 
Denny Crane: Nobody. I decided to fly solo. Think about that! Te ll Shirley. Denny 
Crane without a co-pilot. 
Paul Lewiston: Dear God in heaven. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in the men’s room. Ala n comes out of a stall to 
find Shirley leaning against the counter, waiting f or him. 
Alan Shore: Shirley?  
Shirley Schmidt: Alan? 
Alan Shore: You’re in the men’s room again. 
Shirley Schmidt: I need a favor. 
Alan Shore: Certainly. My stall or yours? 
Shirley Schmidt: Driving into work this morning, I heard of a trial involving this new 
wonder diet drug… the drug, and accordingly the tri al, are making the news. And 
then I heard something very disturbing. The name of  the lawyer handling the 
defense. 
Alan Shore: Denny Crane. 
Shirley Schmidt: Nobody wants this firm held up to ridicule. Nobody wants Denny 
exposed. 
Alan Shore: I’ve been in court with Denny. He knows what he’s d oing, at least fifty 
percent of the time. 
Shirley Schmidt: I like him. You like him. I have to be in New York.  
Denny Crane: He comes in. If she tries to pee standing up come and get me. He 
goes into a stall. Lock and Load. 
 
At the courthouse, Brad, Tracy Green and Tara Wilso n are walking down the 
corridor. 
Tara Wilson : Tracy, we can still make this go away. 
Tracy Green: How many times must you both say that? 
Brad Chase: Until you consider it. Are you sure you want your p ersonal life probed, 
with details at 11:00?  3 Tracy Green: I didn’t steal from her. And I won’t offer her anyt hing to settle. I’d 
appreciate you being on my side. 
Brad Chase: Hey! I’m on your side. 
Tracy Green: Right. 
 
In Judge William Connolly’s courtroom Stephanie Rog ers is in the witness 
chair. 
Stephanie Rogers: We met at an AIDs fundraiser about two years ago. W e were 
both publicists so we had a lot in common. 
Attorney Morrison: And at some point, Ms Rogers, you and the defendant  became 
lovers? 
Stephanie Rogers: Yes. She moved into my home, ultimately we became b usiness 
partners and formed Rogers and Green, which became one of the top PR firms in 
Boston. 
Attorney Morrison: And what happened? 
Stephanie Rogers: Well, quite simply, after she gained access to my f iles and my 
clients she stole them. 
Brad Chase: Objection! 
Judge William Connolly: Sustained. 
Stephanie Rogers: I since learned that she’s not even gay, that she b asically 
pretended to be so that she could gain access to my  client roster. 
Attorney Morrison: Now Ms Rogers, when you allege that the defendant p retended 
to be gay… 
Stephanie Rogers: She had boyfriends before me and one after, perhaps  that 
makes her bisexual, it doesn’t make any difference,  because I specifically asked 
her that at the beginning of our relationship. 
Attorney Morrison: Whether she was bisexual? 
Stephanie Rogers: Yes. I’d been hurt before by heterosexual women 
experimenting, and I didn’t wanna go down that road  again. She told me she was 
gay. That was a lie, one that cost me valuable clie nts. 
Brad Chase: Just let me understand this. The bases of your clai m is that my client 
faked her sexual orientation for the sole purpose o f getting you to fall in love with 
her so that she could move into your home… and busi ness and steal your clients? 
Stephanie Rogers: Yes! 
Brad Chase: When in fact it wasn’t only your business. You buil t it up together over 
the two years. 
Stephanie Rogers: I founded the company, and most of the clients that  she left with 
were mine. 
Brad Chase: Now Ms Rogers, as business partners, as a couple, y ou two were 
quite prominent. Isn’t that right? Your photos were  constantly in the Globe or 
Boston magazine being called the new IT Girls. You two got more publicity than 
your clients. 
Stephanie Rogers: It works to the client’s benefit as well, so I don’ t see your point. 
Brad Chase: My point is you two got a lot of publicity together , as a couple, 
business just went through the roof. Even if you we re defrauded, it wasn’t exactly to 
your financial detriment. 
Stephanie Rogers: It was certainly to my detriment, when she left. 
Brad Chase: Well, but even so. You make more money now than you  did before 
even meeting Tracy, so how could you have been hurt ? 
Stephanie Rogers: How have I been hurt? She caused me to fall in love  with her! 
That… 
Brad Chase: That’s what this really about. Isn’t it Ms Rogers? This isn’t a business 
dispute. This is a domestic one. Did she break your  heart? 
Attorney Morrison: Objection! 
Judge William Connolly: I’ll allow it. 
Brad Chase: Did she break your heart? 
Stephanie Rogers: Yes.  4 Brad Chase: You were in love with her? Now Ms Rogers, during th e two years that 
you were together with my client, do you feel that she was in love with you? 
Stephanie Rogers: Yes. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Denny’s office. Den ny is with a client, Dr 
Robert Mclean. 
Dr Robert Mclean:  Obviously should I get a criminal conviction that w ill only make it 
easier for AMA to take a way my medical license. 
Brad Chase: Well, you’re gonna lose your license Bob, so I won’ t worry about… 
Dr Robert McLean: Why? There are many doctors out there prescribing m edication 
the FDA hasn’t approved for…  
Denny Crane: May I stop you? Don’t be self-righteous. It’s annoy ing. 
Alan Shore: He comes in. Sorry I’m late. 
Denny Crane: What are you doing here? 
Alan Shore: You asked me to second-chair, Denny. Remember?  To Dr Mclean. 
Alan Shore. 
Dr Robert McLean: He shakes Alan’s hand.  Bob McLean. 
Denny Crane: Alan? He waves Alan into another room.  I never asked you to 
second-chair. 
Alan Shore: Sure you did, Denny! You said you were trying the c ase… 
Denny Crane: Solo! I said, “Solo!” 
Alan Shore: Well I thought you asked for backup, so I guess one  of us is losing our 
mind. 
Denny Crane: What do you mean by that? 
Alan Shore: Denny, I’m here! As you know I’m starved for crimina l work. 
Denny Crane: I want to do this alone. 
Alan Shore: Is this about proving something? You said, “Tell Sh irley.” Is about 
proving to Shirley Schmidt you haven’t slipped? 
Denny Crane: Excuse me. I’m in a meeting. 
Alan Shore: Denny, I don’t have time to say this nicely. So! I’ m just gonna say it 
with all the rough edges. This is a criminal procee ding; that man’s liberty could be at 
stake. I’m jumping in, second-chair, to cover his a ss, and yes, possibly yours as 
well. 
 
In a bar, Brad and Tracy are having a drink. 
Brad Chase: Could it be possible she’s doing this for the publi city? 
Tracy Green: Suing me? 
Brad Chase: Well, call me a cynic, but for two years you’re the  IT girls. You’re 
Boston’s top publicists. Business starts to wane. Y ou leave. She’s suddenly not the 
flavor of the month. She sues you. Presto! Hot copy  is the Split Girls all over again. 
For the cost of attorney and filing fee she’s featu red on every newscast. 
Tracy Green: As much as she love’s the limelight, Stephanie’s ho norable. 
Brad Chase: Yeah, I wonder. 
Tracy Green: Is there a reason you keep looking at me like that?  
Brad Chase: Like what? 
Tracy Green: I make you nervous. You need to get over that. 
Brad Chase: So how many men have you been with? 
Tracy Green: Why are you asking? 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt in the kitchen. Lori an d Brad are having a cup of 
coffee. 
Brad Chase: I asked her because she’s going to be asked on the stand why she 
has such a hard time giving me a straight answer. H owever… 
Lori Colson: Is because? 
Brad Chase: I have doubts that she really is one. 
Lori Colson: A homosexual? 
Brad Chase: Yes.  5 Brad Chase: And are these doubts based on the plaintiff’s evide nce? Or your own 
scientific compass? 
Lori Colson: Is she attracted to you, Brad? 
Brad Chase: She might be. Lori chuckles. What? 
Lori Colson: Why is it men…? I mean is it the idea of losing one  to the other side, or 
is it since you have feeling for her you’re anxious  to feel it’s mutual? 
Brad Chase: You see? You sucker me with this buddy talk; get me  to reveal my 
feelings. But when I do… you punish me with them. 
Lori Colson: I thought you were attracted to me. 
Brad Chase: You don’t wanna go there. 
Lori Colson: Even so. To be forgotten so easily. And for a homos exual? 
Brad Chase: Is there something taped to my head that says, “Moc k me.”? 
Catherine Piper: She comes in and goes to get a cup of coffee.  Isn’t coffee a 
lovely drug? I love brain stimulants, don’t you? Uh , Catherine Piper! 
Brad Chase: Brad Chase. 
Catherine Piper: Brad Chase? You’re defending a lesbian! 
Brad doesn’t reply. He just leaves. 
Lori Colson: Hi! I’m Lori Colson, we haven’t officially met. 
Catherine Piper: Hello, Dear. Catherine Piper. 
Lori Colson: For the future. I don’t really appreciate comments about my hair. 
Catherine Piper: Oh! I’m sorry. I was just trying to make conversati on. And I 
assumed you wouldn’t want me to go anywhere near yo ur eyebrows. 
 
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom, Mark Harrison is  on the stand. 
Mark Harrison: I tried diets. All of them. I exercised. I’d gone o n Phen Phen years 
ago, and that helped a little, but… mainly I just k ept gettin bigger. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: And at some point the defendant mentioned a new dru g? 
Mark Harrison: Yes. I forgot how he said he had access to it, but,  basically he said 
he had this new drug, not on the market yet, called  Vermonaband, and studies 
showed, how, it could help people lose weight. And desperate as I was, I just said, 
“Yes.” 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: He sold you this drug? In his office? 
Mark Harrison: Yes. And he told me not to tell anyone, because he said it was 
illegal for him to be giving it to me. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Thank you, Mr Harrison. 
Denny Crane: Can’t help but notice, you’re really fat. 
Mark Harrison: Yes. 
Denny Crane: Been fatter? 
Mark Harrison: Much. 
Denny Crane: Drug worked? 
Mark Harrison: Huge! I mean I lost weight. My cholesterol went dow n. My HDL 
actually went up! 
Denny Crane: Hm 
Mark Harrison: I mean it was a godsend. Of course, till the… you k now, police cut 
off my supplier. 
Alan Shore: Objection to the word ‘supplier’, Your Honor. It ma kes my client sound 
like a drug dealer. 
Denny Crane: Well he is a drug dealer, he sold him drugs. 
Alan Shore: Yes! But there’s a bias that goes with the word ‘de aler’. He simply 
prescribed a medicine to help him live. 
Denny Crane: He’s right. 
Alan Shore: This man almost died. Didn’t he? 
Denny Crane: Didn’t you? 
Mark Harrison: I had high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabet es. I mean, I was 
at serious risk for a major heart attack or a strok e, probably still am. 
Denny Crane: Since you stopped taking the drug? 
Mark Harrison: I’m having problems again. 
Denny Crane: Did my client tell you that this drug is unapproved  by the FDA?  6 Mark Harrison: Yes. 
Denny Crane: Did he tell you that there could be side affects? 
Mark Harrison: Yes. 
Denny Crane: You were fully informed? 
Mark Harrison: I was. 
Denny Crane: You consented? 
Mark Harrison: I did. 
Denny Crane: Take it again? 
Mark Harrison: Absolutely! 
Denny Crane: Like the doctor? 
Mark Harrison: Love him. 
Denny Crane: How’s your memory. 
Mark Harrison: My memory’s fine. 
Denny Crane: What’s my name. 
Mark Harrison: Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane: Like you mean it. 
Mark Harrison: Denny Crane! 
Denny Crane: What’s my name?!! 
Mark Harrison: Denny Crane!!! 
Denny Crane: No further questions. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Brad office. He and  Tracy are watching a 
newscast. 
Newsperson: Stephanie Rogers is essentially accusing Ms Green of being a 
heterosexual in sheep’s clothing. If successful the  plaintiff could potentially receive 
a judgment in excess of seven figures. Which why pe rhaps this… 
Tracy Green: Wait, she wasn’t finished! 
Brad Chase: It doesn’t matter how it’s playing out in public Tr acy. What matters is 
the twelve people in that box. 
Tracy Green: And? 
Brad Chase: I can’t tell. Well you’ve dated more men than women , so that puts you 
on the heterosexual side of the fence. You certainl y could have been confused as 
they said, but... the problem is you’re coming off as anything but indecisive. You 
seem like a woman who knows exactly what you want. 
Tracy Green: What is that supposed to mean? 
Brad Chase: Nothing. 
Tracy Green: They stare at each other.  You actually think that I’m attracted to you. 
Brad Chase: I just believe you should be straight with people. But you know what I 
mean. I smell some decent here. 
Tracy Green: I’m gay, Brad. Do you want me to take a lie detecto r? 
 
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom, Dr Leonard Raski n is on the stand. 
Dr.Leonard Raskin:  People lament the cost of health care, they cry ov er soaring 
litigation costs and scream about the eroding integ rity of our medical profession. 
The conduct of this doctor and others like him are to blame. 
Denny Crane: Oh… Lighten up man. 
Judge Paul Resnick: Mr Crane! You’ll get your turn. 
Dr Leonard Raskin: We have rules. One is we do not go prescribing expe rimental 
drugs that the FDA hasn’t approved for market. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Even if the patient consents? 
Dr Leonard Raskin: The patient will always follow the lead of his doct or. For God’s 
sake look what people buy off infomercials. They’ll  try anything, hair potions; pills 
that make you lose weight while you sleep. Desperat e people will try anything. And 
when you have a licensed doctor saying, “Here. Take  this.”? They will. 
Denny Crane: This isn’t a potion. This drug works. 
Dr Leonard Raskin: In preliminary studies. But there’s much, much, mor e testing to 
be done.  7 Denny Crane: How long does it take the FDA to approve a drug? 
Dr Leonard Raskin: It isn’t quick, but…  
Denny Crane: How long? 
Dr Leonard Raskin: Nine years. 
Denny Crane: My client’s patient would be dead by then. But, hey ! You got your 
rules. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Objection! 
Denny Crane: Oh be quiet. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Your Honor, he can’t tell me to be quiet. 
Judge Paul Resnick: Let him have his turn, Mr Zale. 
Denny Crane: You say that doctors shouldn’t prescribe non-FDA-ap proved drugs 
as a rule. 
Dr Leonard Raskin: Yes. 
Denny Crane: Doctors don’t prescribe medications for things that  the FDA hasn’t 
approved them for? 
Dr Leonard Raskin: Off label prescriptions happen, but…  
Denny Crane: Doctor, have you ever prescribed a drug that wasn’t  approved for the 
particular condition you were treating? 
Dr Leonard Raskin: Yes, but… 
Denny Crane: And doctor, if you were overweight, and at risk for  an eminent stroke 
or heart attack. Is it your testimony that you woul d never consider taking 
Vermonaband? 
Dr Leonard Raskin: For myself, I might, but... 
Denny Crane: But, you wouldn’t give your patient the same opport unity, because 
you have rules. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Lori is in her office,  Brad is with her. 
Lori Colson: You’re going to be the first lawyer sued by his cli ent for sexual 
harassment. 
Brad Chase: I’m a good lawyer because I got a nose for the trut h, Lori. 
Lori Colson: You’re attracted to her, Brad. It’s clouding your no se. Are you falling in 
love with this woman? 
Brad Chase: What? Please. 
Lori Colson: Are you? 
Brad Chase: Of course not. I put a tail on her. 
Lori Colson: I beg your pardon? 
Brad Chase: I hired a PI, just to follow her around, see who sh e sees. 
Lori Colson: What she sees. You’re trying to out her as a hetero sexual. 
Brad Chase: I don’t like surprises in court. 
Lori Colson: Okay. First? You could lose your bar ticket for put ting a tail… 
Brad Chase: Why? It’s not that big of a deal. 
Lori Colson: Brad! She’s your client! Second, let the jury decid e whether or not 
she’s being truthful. You just be her lawyer, and o nly… And third, stop hitting on 
her. 
Brad leaves and walks out. Out in the corridor he w alks by a group of people 
standing around a table. 
Alan Shore: Hey Brad? All together now! 
All: Lesbian! 
Shirley comes up. 
Shirley Schmidt: Boy? How’s our trial going? 
Denny Crane: You think I’m just gonna wither up and die in there , don’t you? 
Shirley Schmidt: All these references to our sex life, Denny. 
Denny Crane: Tell her how I’m doing, Alan. 
Shirley Schmidt: Please. Since he can’t recall. 
Alan Shore: He’s been amazing! I’d say we have a better than ev en chance. 
Denny Crane: Ah. He and Alan leave.  
Shirley Schmidt: To Catherine Piper standing next to her.  Hello? 
Catherine Piper: Hello.  8 Shirley Schmidt: Is there a reason you’re snuggled up to me? 
Catherine Piper: Why yes! I understand you’re the boss, Dear. I’m su cking up. 
Shirley Schmidt: By standing next to me? 
Catherine Piper: Yes! With me by your side, Dear, you almost look yo ung! 
Shirley Schmidt: I have no idea who you are. But I like you. 
Catherine Piper: He-he-he. 
Shirley Schmidt: To Alan walking by.  Is he really doing okay? 
Alan Shore: The firm is safe from ridicule. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Alan is in his office.  
Denny Crane: He comes in. What did she want? Make sure I’m competent? 
Alan Shore: Something like that. You were more that competent t oday Denny, you 
were good, very good. 
Denny Crane: I know. 
Alan Shore: We must be doing our crosswords these days. 
Denny Crane: Did she ask you to backstop me? 
Alan Shore: It was my idea. 
Denny Crane: Damn liar. 
Alan Shore: I like doing cases with you Denny. Can’t you just a ccept that? It’s fun. 
Denny Crane: Fun. Fine. I’ll go with that then. 
Alan Shore: You have seemed especially acute. Are we taking som ething? 
Denny Crane: I just rubbed on a little clear cream. It was just for muscle cramps. 
Alan Shore: Denny? Are you taking something? 
Denny Crane: What I’m taking is good care of myself. The old Den ny Crane is 
coming back. 
 
In Judge William Connolly’s courtroom. 
Tracy Green: My business had reached sort of a plateau, and I fe lt I could do better 
solo. And truthfully, I thought that she might to. 
Brad Chase: Now before leaving, did you tell your clients? 
Tracy Green: Absolutely not! I left. I contacted them. They deci ded to come with 
me. In that order. 
Brad Chase: Now Tracy, we’ve heard the accusation that you pret ended to love 
Stephanie for business reasons. 
Tracy Green: It’s absolutely false. I… I fell in love with her. I mean, the idea that I 
could feign love for two plus years… just… you know  how much I loved you, 
Stephanie. 
Judge William Connolly: Ms Green, please do not address anyone but me or yo ur 
council. 
Tracy Green: I never lied to her about my sexual orientation, an d I’m offended by 
that. 
Attorney Morrison: How many women had you been with prior to your rela tionship 
with my client. 
Brad Chase: Objection! 
Judge William Connolly:  Overruled. However salacious, it’s in issue. 
Attorney Morrison: How many women? 
Tracy Green: One. 
Attorney Morrison: One? And prior to your relationship with my client,  how many 
men had you had sexual relationships with? 
Tracy Green: Several. 
Attorney Morrison: Several? More than five? 
Tracy Green: Yes. 
Attorney Morrison: More than ten? 
Tracy Green: I wanted to lead a heterosexual life, eventually I realized… 
Attorney Morrison: My client asked you if you were bisexual. You answe red, “No.” 
Tracy Green: Because I’m not. I may have been with men in the pa st but ultimately 
I realized I preferred women. 
Attorney Morrison: How many relationships have you had since Stephanie ?  9 Tracy Green: One. 
Attorney Morrison: A man or a woman. 
Tracy Green: Well, the breakup with Stephanie was extremely pain ful… 
Attorney Morrison: Your subsequent relationship was with a man or a wo man? 
Tracy Green: A man. 
Attorney Morrison: A man? Now you spoke earlier about the exact order of how 
things went down. Rewinding a little further back, you met Stephanie,.became her 
lover, eventually became her business partner, left  with clients and files, began 
having an affair with a man. Did I get the order ri ght? 
 
At the courthouse, Tracy and Brad go into a witness  room. 
Tracy Green: I just got destroyed. Didn’t I? 
Brad Chase: You didn’t get destroyed. It was a tough cross but I thought you held 
up. 
Tracy Green: Really? 
Brad Chase: Really. 
Tracy Green: You know, to think that I’m straight is to believe that I’m a profoundly 
dishonest person, and I’m not dishonest, Brad. 
Brad Chase: Okay. 
Tracy Green: You know, I can take you doubting my sexual orienta tion, but my 
character, I uh… 
Brad Chase: I don’t doubt you. 
 
Brad and Tara are in an elevator. 
Brad Chase: She’s trying to admit something. 
Tara Wilson : What? That she’s not gay? 
Brad Chase: I don know. Maybe. 
Tara Wilson : You’re making a fool of yourself, Brad. 
Brad Chase: I know when I’m being deceived, Tara. 
Tara Wilson : The deception is self-inflicted. You’re infatuate d with her and you want 
to believe it’s reciprocal. She’s probably more int erested in me, than you. You’re 
making a fool of yourself. 
 
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom. 
Dr Robert Mclean: I considered it life or death. He was at risk of ca rdiac arrest, 
diabetes. 
Denny Crane: And this drug was your only resort? 
Dr Robert Mclean: It was my last resort. Believe me, I’m not in the ha bit of 
prescribing non-approved drugs, but this…  
Denny Crane: Doctor, would you tell the jury, and me to, for tha t matter cause I’ve 
forgotten, how Veromanabin works? 
Dr Robert Mclean: I suppresses a protein in the brain that makes you want to eat. In 
fact this drug blocks nearly all cravings. It can b e used to help people quit smoking, 
drinking, which is why it’s been called the wonder drug. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: So! You just figured what the hell, why wait for pr oof? 
Dr Robert Mclean: My patient couldn’t wait Mr Zale. He was looking at  an eminent 
physical demise. In medical terms we call it death.  
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Any published studies on this drug? To justify this  wonder 
status you give it? 
Dr Robert Mclean: Not yet. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Has this drug been approved for sale? 
Dr Robert Mclean: Not yet. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: How’d you get your hands on this drug doctor? 
Dr Robert Mclean: I had a connection at one of the clinics where it’s  being tested. I 
won’t reveal more than that. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: You’re a licensed doctor, prescribing a drug not ap proved by 
the FDA, to desperate patients. 
Dr Robert Mclean: With a full warning.  10  A.D.A. Howard Zale: How can warn about a drug side affect you don’t kno w about? 
Dr Robert Mclean: The warning I gave Mr Harrison was exactly that! Th is drug may 
have side affects we don’t know about. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Possible fatal side effects? 
Dr Robert Mclean: There’s no evidence of that. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: So you decide…  
Dr Robert Mclean: Balancing the benefits against the known risks of a  coronary if 
he doesn’t take it, I favor taking the medication. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: This is an experimental drug! 
Dr Robert Mclean: Which I have no financial in. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Which you boot leg! 
Dr Robert Mclean: My only concern was a patient’s health. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: So! Doctor’s should feel free to ignore the FDA whe never they 
choose? 
Dr Robert Mclean: I never said that. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Oh, so you should feel free whenever you choose? 
Dr Robert Mclean: Sometimes desperate circumstances require desperate  
measures. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: And desperate people will do anything, won’t they? 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in the men’s room, Den ny is standing in front of 
a urinal. 
Paul Lewiston: He comes in. Denny? 
Denny Crane: You’re checking on me in here too? Think I’ve forgo tten how to piss? 
Paul Lewiston: I beg your pardon? 
Denny Crane: Tired of being followed around like some patient! I  change my 
underwear every day. I know how to practice law! An d if you’re the one who 
assigned Alan Shore to backstop me then you’d bette r stop… 
Paul Lewiston: You’d listen! 
Denny Crane: I’m still talking. 
Paul Lewiston: Now I’m talking. You arrogant old fart! You have a client facing 
prison time. You have no right to exalt your ego. 
Denny Crane: Don’t you talk to me in that…  
Paul Lewiston: Shut up! I am sick of you feeling sorry for yoursel f and only yourself. 
It was selfish of you to try this case solo. Do not  start a war with me here. You may 
not win it! 
Denny Crane: That’s why you brought Shirley back? To build an al liance! Guess 
you’re the one who forgot how to piss. 
 
In Judge William Connolly’s courtroom, Attorney Mor rison is giving his 
closing argument. 
Attorney Morrison: Does it smell right to you? She had a history of me n before my 
client; she never hinted to her best friends that s he was anything but heterosexual; 
she had an affair with a man after she left my clie nt. Her only fling with 
homosexuality just happened to coincide with the bi ggest financial windfall of her 
life. Suddenly being gay got her money. Got her pro filed about town, in magazines, 
on TV as an IT girl. New found fame, new found mone y, new found sexual 
orientation. Does it smell right to you? 
Brad Chase: In order to make a Cause Of Action for fraud, one m ust prove that he 
or she relied on the fraud to his or her own detrim ent. Now after partnering with my 
client, Ms Roger’s financial and professional fortu nes soared. She benefited. In fact 
one might even say, considering the media coverage of this lawsuit that she’s 
actually benefiting from the breakup because as any  PR professional knows, 
there’s no such thing as bad publicity. But if you’ re determined to get hung-up on 
the issue, “Is Tracy Green gay or not?”, “Did she r eally love Stephanie or not?” 
consider Stephanie’s own testimony when I asked her , during the relationship, as 
she was living it, did she feel that Tracy loved he r, and she answered was, “Yes.”  11  But now in the wake of hurt and heartbreak she offe rs a different answer. Which 
version do you find more reliable? 
 
At the courthouse, Brad is pacing out on the corrid or. Tara comes off the 
elevator. 
Tara Wilson : Anything? 
Brad Chase: Nah, they’re still deliberating. Tara hands him an . envelope. What’s 
this? 
Tara Wilson : I haven’t the slightest idea. Your secretary said  you’d want it sooner, 
rather than later. What is it? 
Brad Chase: It’s nothing. It’s just another case I’m working on . 
 
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Do I have to convince you of the danger of prescrib ing non-
approved drugs? Defrauding overweight people with d iet gimmicks is a billion dollar 
industry? And now we’re going to let doctors get in  on the racket and say, “It’s okay 
to sell black market pills under the table.”? It’s precisely because physicians have 
such an influence over their patients that we deman d that drugs be approved by the 
FDA. But this doctor decided he shouldn’t be held t o that. This doctor figured he’s 
above the law. This doctor is the equivalent of a d rug dealer selling cocaine in an 
alleyway, and he should be punished accordingly. 
Alan Shore: He gets up. So does Denny>  I thought I was closing. 
Denny Crane: I’m first chair. 
Alan Shore: You got to ask all the questions. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Objection! Your Honor, these two have tried to triv ialize the 
severity of this case with their Abbott and Costell o routine. But it’s an insult to this 
court. 
Alan Shore: Your Honor, it’s only fair I get to do something he re. 
Judge Paul Resnick: Mr Shore. The court is anything but amused. 
Alan Shore: I’m not… 
Denny Crane: No. I, I, I, got it. We’ll split it. You go first. 
Alan Shore: Fine. Okay. First, this big deal about FDA approval . Doctors prescribe 
medications every day for uses the FDA never consid ered. Aspirin for years has 
been used to prevent and treat heart attacks. Did t he FDA ever test for that? No. 
They were sanctioned only as a pain-reliever until recently. Beta blockers are 
prescribed for migraines with no FDA approval; we t ake anticonvulsants for pain, for 
Bipolar Disorders, antidepressants for insomnia, st eroids for cancer. People in this 
country are getting prescriptions by the thousands every day from their doctors, for 
treatments the FDA has never signed off on. And wha t about the FDA? David 
Graham a drug reviewer with the agency just testifi ed before Congress that the 
FDA is, I quote, “Virtually incapable of protecting  America from unsafe drugs.” The 
FDA is broken folks. Raise your hand if you agree. Except for those on Bioxin. 
A.D.A. Howard Zale: Objection. 
Alan Shore: The FDA’s own point man said to Congress, that we a re currently 
facing the single greatest drug safety catastrophe in the history of the world. So 
who then is there to protect the patient? Who is th ere to protect Mr Harrision? His 
doctor! My client had a medication that could save his patient’s life. He wasn’t going 
to wait nine years for approval from a broken, inef fective agency. This is life or 
death, for God’s sake. Life? Or Death? 
Alan sits, Denny gets up. 
Denny Crane: I’m at risk for Alzheimer’s. I got some sort of pla que inside my brain, 
my memory… I might have met somebody before I would n’t know. What you 
wouldn’t know is what it feels like to be… losing i t, to be… feel… to be slipping. 
There’s a prescription drug dextroamphetamine. It’s  very big on the black market. 
It’s used by college kids to bone up for exams. I’v e been taking it. He turns to look 
at Alan. I don’t know how it works. But you get your memory back. It reintroduces 
you to your vocabulary. Helps with mental arithmeti c. Facial recognition. Go for all 
productivity. Basically, you get your brain back. An d no FDA or any other agency is  12  gonna tell me I don’t have the right to get back my  brain. No government or 
corporation is gonna tell me or order me to continu e losing my mind. I agree with 
the prosecutor. This claim that desperate people wi ll try desperate measures. So 
what? 
 
In Judge William Connolly’s courtroom, the jury fil es in. 
Judge William Connolly: Members of the jury…  
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom. 
Judge Paul Resnick: …have you reached a verdict? 
Master foreperson:  Yes, we have, Your Honor. 
In Judge William Connolly’s courtroom.  
Madam foreperson:  We have, Your Honor. 
Judge William Connolly: What say you? 
Madam foreperson:  In the matter of Rogers versus Green…  
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom. 
Master foreperson:  In the matter of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts  versus Dr 
Robert MacLean…  
In Judge William Connolly’s courtroom.  
Madam foreperson:  We the jury find in favor of the defendant. 
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom. 
Master foreperson:  We find the defendant Dr Robert McLean, not guilty . 
In Judge William Connolly’s courtroom.  
Judge William Connolly: Ladies and Gentlemen of the jury, I wanna thank you  for 
your services. At this time you are dismissed. Cour t adjourned. 
 
In a restaurant, Brad and Tracy are seated at a sma ll table looking at the 
menu. 
Brad Chase: So, did she say anything after? 
Tracy Green: Just shot me a look when she was leaving the courth ouse. She’ll get 
over it. 
Brad Chase: You know, I bet she will. 
Tracy Green: Who know, maybe we’ll even get back together one da y. 
Brad Chase: Wouldn’t be surprised. 
Tracy Green: So. Why did you wanna have dinner Brad? To celebrat e the victory? 
Or take one last shot at conversion? 
Brad Chase: I wanted to have dinner to apologize. I did a reall y terrible thing; I hired 
a private investigator to follow you. I wanted to s atisfy myself that you were really 
gay. And I’m quite satisfied now. You went to see S tephanie around midnight last 
night. Why would you do that? Well, I had it half ri ght, didn’t I. You know, thinking 
Stephanie sued you for the publicity. You were both  in on it. IT girls or split girls, 
however you make the news, you two are a really goo d team. Cause I knew I was 
being deceived, I just wasn’t sure how. 
Tracy Green: I didn’t plan for you to fall for me. 
Brad Chase: Don’t flatter yourself. 
Tracy Green: I think that I should leave. 
Brad Chase: No, no, you don’t have to. We won the case. Come on  this is a 
celebration. 
Tracy Green: I’m a… I’m gonna leave. Thank you, Brad. Uhm, and a gain I’m sorry 
if..Uh… Thank you. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, out on the balcony Den ny is having a drink. 
Alan Shore: He comes out to join Denny. That drug you’re taking is an 
amphetamine with a dangerously high potential for a buse and addiction. 
Denny Crane: The shrinks are doling it out like candy. 
Alan Shore: Might make you feel more acute, you’ll no doubt wor k like a demon, but 
certain pleasures will be gone. 
Denny Crane: Like?  13  Alan Shore: Perhaps fishing. Perhaps, sitting in a chair enjoyi ng a football game. 
Standing on a balcony appreciating the quiet joy of  a friendship. There’s more to life 
than recognizing faces, Denny. 
Denny Crane: You prefer me in my fog? 
Alan Shore: I prefer you. Your perspective. Your humor. The acc eptance and 
humility which perhaps can only come with age. I pr efer you. 
Denny Crane: I’ve stopped taking the drug. I kinda like my fog t oo. There’s a certain 
license that goes with it. Plus, I’ve said this befo re and I’ll say it again, the answers 
in life, you don’t find them here, first you look t o God… and… then... 
Alan Shore: Fox News. 
Denny Crane: Damn right. You Democrats. 
Alan Shore: You Republicans. 
Denny Crane: Shirley know I won? 
Alan Shore: Told her myself. 
Denny Crane: What did she say? 
Alan Shore: She’d like to have your children. 
Denny Crane: Damn right. 