10 Boston Legal 
From Whence We Came 
Season 1, Episode 12 
Written by David E. Kelley 
© 2005 David E. Kelley Productions. All Rights Rese rved. 
Broadcast: January 16, 2005 
Transcribed by Imamess of JSMP for JSMP and Boston- Legal.org 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Paul Lewiston and Shir ley Schmidt are in the conference room. 
Shirley Schmidt:  How bad is he? 
Paul Lewiston:  He’s intermittently brilliant and nonsensically, o ften at the same time. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Then he’s technically still in charge of litigatio n? 
Paul Lewiston:  Which is the reason I called you back. He is an en ormous rainmaker, Shirley. And yet…  
Denny Crane:  He comes in and sits down.  Lock and load. He looks around the table. Where is everybody? 
Paul Lewiston:  This is an administrative meeting, Denny. 
Denny Crane:  Oh! What the hell am I doing here? He gets up to leave.  
Shirley Schmidt:  Remember the good ole days when you liked to know what was going on? When you could go 
from your office to the elevator without a roadmap?  
Denny Crane:  Didn’t need a roadmap to find my way around your b ody, did I, Shirley? 
Shirley Schmidt:  I wouldn’t know. I was usually asleep. 
Denny Crane:  I once had her... and Streisand… at the same time.  Remember that? 
Shirley Schmidt:  Hahhh, I do Denny. Ha ha. And not to burst your bu bble but that was a female impersonator. 
Perhaps the penis might have been your cue. 
Denny Crane:  That wasn’t Barbara Streisand? 
Sally Heep:  She comes in. You wanted to see me? 
Shirley Schmidt:  Yes, Sally, bad news. We lost the summary judgment  motion on Witchell. Have a seat. 
Sally Heep:  We lost? 
Shirley Schmidt:  The judge held that the magazine, while possibly n egligent, wasn’t guilty of reckless disregard 
for the truth. 
Sally Heep:  So, we could prevail under negligence. 
Shirley Schmidt:  We could. If only we’d thought to plead negligence . She reads from a paper in front of her. 
Count one, intentional inflection of emotional dist ress. Count two, reckless disregard for the truth. She looks 
up. Ah, here’s where there should have been a third cou nt alleging negligence. There is no third count all eging 
negligence. 
Sally Heep:  In, in the supporting memoranda we have pages on n egligence. 
Shirley Schmidt:  But you didn’t plead it. 
Sally Heep:  So we just file a motion to amend. 
Shirley Schmidt:  That deadline lapsed. 
Sally Heep:  Ah, this is… this is obviously an oversight. The d efendant had constructive notice, we can appeal 
this. I’ll get right on it. 
Shirley Schmidt:  I have taken the liberty of reviewing some of your  other work, Sally. You’re a very good lawyer. 
But not, good enough we’re letting you go. 
Sally Heep:  You’re firing me? 
Shirley Schmidt:  I’m sorry. 
Sally Heep:  I have done a lot of good work here. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Yes, you have. And any number of law firms would be  happy to have you. This one 
unfortunately just doesn’t happen to be one of them . 
Sally Heep:  To Denny.  Are you in on this? 
Denny Crane:  Am, am, am I in on this? 
Shirley Schmidt:  It was my decision. Paul and Denny still remain st rong supporters. We’re streamlining a little 
and I have to make some tough calls. I’m sorry. 
Sally Heep:  How can you come in here, and in one week, fire so meone you don’t even know? 
Shirley Schmidt:  I’m Schmidt. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Nora Jacobs is walking  down the corridor. She passes Alan Shore. 
Alan Shore:  Nora, outstanding. I give it a three. 
Nora Jacobs:  Thank you? 
 10 Back in the conference room with Paul, Shirley and Denny. 
Nora Jacobs:  She comes in. Mr Crane? A Mr Walter Fife is in your office. He sa ys it’s quite important. 
Denny Crane:  Oh, thank you. May I ask? Do I know you? 
Nora Jacobs:  I’m Alan Shore’s assistant. Mr Fife came to our of fice when he couldn’t find you. I escorted him 
back to your office. 
Denny Crane:  Excellent. I’ll be right there. 
Nora leaves. Denny beams smugly. 
Shirley Schmidt:  You’re waiting for me to tell you where your offic e is, aren’t you? 
Denny Crane:  No. I wanna to see the look on your face when you realize, they still come through that door 
looking for one man to solve their problems, they d on’t come barging in looking for Paul, or you. Only  one man. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Allow me. She gets up and leans toward his ear and whispers.  Denny Crane. 
Denny Crane:  He gasps. She can still pump my chubby. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Shirley is walking in the corridor. As she walks around a corner, Nora is  
waiting for her. 
Nora Jacobs:  Mrs Schmidt. 
Shirley Schmidt:  My mother is Mrs Schmidt, you can call me Schmidt.  
Nora Jacobs:  I know you’re a very busy person, but if I could s teal one minute of your busy time. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Regarding? 
Nora Jacobs:  It’s a little personal. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Ten o’clock. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Denny’s office. Wal ter Fife is with Denny. 
Walter Fife:  They didn’t just sue the School Board, they sued m e personally, which I regard as punitive. 
Denny Crane:  Walter, I can assure you their Cause of Action is to tally baseless. 
Walter Fife:  I haven’t even told you what it is yet. 
Denny Crane:  I… 
Shirley Schmidt:  She comes in.  Hi! Shirley Schmidt. 
Denny Crane:  This is Walter Fife. He’s superintendent of Middle  Sect School District. He’s being sued. What’d 
you do? Little, touchy feely with a student? 
Walter Fife:  What? God no! What, what kind of question is that?  
Denny Crane:  Oh lighten up. Let’s all sit. Shirley here is a se nior partner, so you’re in good hands, you got both  
Shirley and umh…  
Shirley Schmidt:  You! 
Denny Crane:  Me! Right. Good. Okay. Now. Look. I’m gonna ask yo u something. It’s gonna be a question. And 
I want a direct answer. No matter how difficult. 
Walter Fife:  Okay. 
Denny Crane:  Why… Walter… are you being sued? 
Walter looks at Shirley.  
Shirley Schmidt:  You promised you’d answer. 
Walter Fife:  The School Board voted to include Creationism alon g with Darwinism in the eighth grade Science 
curriculum. The teachers refused, I terminated thei r employment. They sued. 
Denny Crane:  Massachusetts is a blue state. God has no place he re. 
Walter Fife:  I, I’m not sure you’re really the lawyer for this particular... 
Shirley Schmidt:  We have many attorneys, well equipped to han... 
Denny Crane:  Nonsense. I’ve been practicing law for 45 years. N ever lost a single case. 
Walter Fife:  You’ve never lost? 
Denny Crane:  My record is six thousand and forty-three to O. Yo u hear the one about the fellow who died, went 
to the Pearly Gates, St Peter let him in, sees a gu y in suit making a closing arguments. Says, “Who’s that?” St 
Peter says, “Ohhh, that God. Thinks he’s Denny Cran e.” Ha, ha, ha, ha! I’m your boy Walter. Never lost . Never 
will. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Lori Colson, Brad Chas e and Tara Wilson are in the lounge. 
Lori Colson:  Did she give you a reason? 
Sally Heep:  Just that my work didn’t cut it. I mean my reviews  have all been good. Plus, I mean it’s not like 
they’ve given me very much to do. The Witchell case  was really the first one they let me run with. 
Brad Chase:  And... you forgot to plead negligence. Lori gives him a look. Sorry. 
Lori Colson:  Let me talk to her. See if there’s another story. 10 Sally Heep:  : I mean, is this woman like some sort of psycho w itch or something? 
Lori Colson:  Actually no she’s extremely nice. 
Brad Chase:  We all know she was sent to shake the tree. Looks like it’s already begun. 
Tara Wilson:  I wonder who’s next? 
Shirley Schmidt:  She comes in. Lori? Can I steal you for a second? 
Lori Colson:  Sure. She leaves to follow Shirley.  
Tara Wilson:  Dibs on her office. 
Lori Colson:  She turns back to give Tara a look, then walks down  the corridor with Shirley.  I just heard 
about Sally. I think you’re making a mistake. 
Shirley Schmidt:  I didn’t ask. 
Lori Colson:  Which surprises me actually. You and I are friends . I’ve worked with Sally. 
Shirley Schmidt:  And being loyal to her, you’d possibly be neither objective nor candid. 
Lori Colson. Even so…  
Shirley Schmidt:  In either event I didn’t ask. Lori wants to say more, but doesn’t. We just got a new case. Big 
client. Middle Sect School District. Denny’s in cha rge. Which is fine, as long as he doesn’t speak. I need you to 
take over. 
Lori Colson:  How do I just take over? He’ll completely... 
Shirley Schmidt:  You’ll handle him Lori. The way only you can. 
Lori Colson:  Ah, what’s the case? 
Shirley Schmidt:  It’s a variation of the Scope’s trial. Three teach ers were fired for refusing to teach Creationism. 
They’ve sue. 
Lori Colson:  Sounds like a slam dunk. For them. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Perhaps. It would take some pretty ingenious lawye ring on our part from, not only a gifted 
attorney, but someone who’s an expert in the field.  
Lori Colson:  Meaning? 
Shirley Schmidt:  Lori, I know all the skeletons in your closet. Rem ember? Including that deeply guarded little 
one that you fear might ruin your intellectual repu tation. You go to church. 
Nora Jacobs:  She comes to the door and knocks.  Uhm, Schmidt. Is this a good time? 
Shirley Schmidt:  Yeah. To Lori. Conference room? Noon? Lori nods. Thank you. 
Lori leaves.  
Shirley Schmidt:  How can I help? 
Nora Jacobs:  Well. This is very awkward. I’m not even sure you’ re the right person to come to. But… you’re a 
woman. 
Shirley Schmidt:  That’s very kind. 
Nora Jacobs:  I work for Alan Shore and in many many ways he’s a n excellent boss. God knows he isn’t boring. 
But I feel that’s he’s been inappropriate with me. 
Shirley Schmidt:  How so? 
Nora Jacobs:  Well. He compliments my figure daily. And he just kind of does it in a lascivious way. He also 
ranks my sweaters. 
Shirley Schmidt:  He ranks your sweaters? 
Nora Jacobs:  Yes. Which ones he thinks I look best in. This is a three. He asked if he could take one home for 
the weekend. He told me he has dreams about me. 
Shirley Schmidt:  What kind of dreams? 
Nora Jacobs:  All kinds. Ah, once he dreamt that I was just a he ad. No body, just a head. Everywhere he went 
he would carry me along, wrapped in a muffler, to k eep him company. And every so often I would whisper  
terrible, dirty things in his ear. Feels a little l ike harassment. 
Shirley Schmidt:  You think? Would you like to work for another lawy er? 
Nora Jacobs:  Well, I’d just like him to stop. I must admit, tha t, sometimes I’ve been guilty of playing along with  
his banter. But... 
Shirley Schmidt:  I’ll take care of it. 
Nora Jacobs:  Thank you. 
Shirley Schmidt:  And Nora? Thank you for coming forward with this. I know it was difficult. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Tara’s office the T V is on, and Tara is watching the news.  
TV Announcer:  We have very little information, other than the vi ctim was in her fifties and that she was 
bludgeoned to death. It is the second death in a we ek that has rocked this idealic little street. Just  last Friday 
the victim’s next door neighbor died as well, from a  head trauma. You may recall the son was briefly he ld, and 
then released. 10 Tara Wilson:  She gasps as her chair is suddenly shoved back to t he wall. What? Alan Shore comes up 
from under the desk and stares at the Television.  
TV Announcer:  ... not indicated whether these two cases are conn ected. 
Alan Shore:  It’s Bernie! 
Tara Wilson:  Who? 
Alan Shore:  That little skillet-wielding client from last week . He’s whacked another one! He promised me he 
wouldn’t?  He leaves.  
Tara Wilson:  Does that mean you’re... finished? 
 
In Bernard Ferrion’s home. There is a knocking on t he door. 
Bernard Ferrion:  He opens the door. Alan? 
Alan Shore:  What have you done? 
Bernard Ferrion:  There’s an awful lot of excitement. 
Alan Shore:  I saw. Both live, and on the news. You’ve been fla nging again with your frying pan, haven’t you, 
Bernard? 
Bernard Ferrion:  I never meant for it to happen. 
Alan Shore:  I am very disappointed! I gave you a terrific spee ch last week Bernie. Appealing to the kind, inner 
you. It was wonderful, poignant even, and now you’v e completely muted it by committing murder again! 
Bernard Ferrion:  I never meant to kill her. 
Alan Shore:  Oh, what? You went over there to make an omelet an d things go out of hand? 
Bernard Ferrion:  She knew! She heard an argument between me and mot her. She was out there watering her 
stupid plants. In the winter, for God’s sakes. The woman is not right. Or wasn’t right. Alan sighs.  Alan, she said 
she was gonna call the police. She said what she he ard would not be hearsay. She looked it up, she sai d, 
because we were arguing, it would, it would qualify  as an excited blutterance. Suddenly the skillet wa s in my 
hand, and I swung. 
Alan Shore:  Blutterance isn’t even a real word. Much less a de fense. You murdered somebody over a fake 
word! 
Bernard Ferrion:  I was careful to not leave any evidence. I went ov er there stealth like...  He moves the curtain 
aside to look out the window.  
Alan Shore:  He pulls Bernie away from the window. Oh for God’s sake. 
Bernard Ferrion:  ...I staged a break-in in the back. I dispatched o f her, and then I returned. And Alan, I promise 
you, this will be the very very last one. 
Alan Shore:  I’m not representing you this time. 
Bernard Ferrion:  You must! If it comes to that! 
Alan Shore:  I won’t! You’ve let me down terribly! 
Bernard Ferrion:  Uh, but... But you said that you stood for the litt le man. Alan slams the door as he leaves the 
house. I’m little! 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Walter, Lori, Denny an d Shirley are in the conference room. 
Lori Colson:  The best thing I feel would be to go for an immedi ate declaratory judgment. The last thing we want 
is a trial. This is a hot button issue. The ACLU wi ll be jumping in and that’s only the beginning. 
Denny Crane:  As Lori continues talking to Walter, Denny turns to  Shirley. Why have I been taken off this 
case? 
Shirley Schmidt:  You haven’t. You’ve been relieved of the grunt wor k because it’s beneath you. 
Denny Crane:  Relieved is a soft word for discharge. I recognize  a demotion when I see one. I am the master of 
the soft discharge. 
Shirley Schmidt:  You refer again to when we were intimate. Now pay attention and pretend you have a clue. 
Lori Colson:  We all set? 
Denny Crane:  Lock and load. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Let’s go. 
The get up to leave. Out in the corridor they pass Alan. 
Alan Shore:  Lori. 
Lori Colson:  Alan. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Alan, a second. We have a ... little problem. Seem s you’ve been sexually harassing Nora 
Jacobs. 
Alan Shore:  She signed a waiver. 
Shirley Schmidt:  I’m sorry? 
Alan Shore:  I make all my female employees sign sexual harassm ent waivers. Especially the pretty ones. 10 Shirley Schmidt:  I don’t think that document would hold up in court . Alan Shore:  Oh. 
Shirley Schmidt:  But regardless, that kind of behavior isn’t tolera ted at Crane, Poole and Schmidt. 
Alan Shore:  Which... kind of... behavior? Specifically? 
Shirley Schmidt:  I think you’re smart enough to sense where the lin e is, Counsel. 
Alan Shore:  I’m never sure until I cross it. 
Shirley Schmidt:  She is a subordinate. There is a disparity of powe r. You will refrain from any sexual advances, 
verbal or otherwise. 
Alan Shore:  Shirley? He sighs.  What about senior partners? There would be nothing  wrong with me lusting say 
after you? Would there? 
Shirley Schmidt:  Go subscribe to National Geographic. Make a list o f the places you’ll never get to visit. Add to 
that list, Schmidt. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Brad and Sally are wal king down the corridor.  
Brad Chase:  Sally, I’ll talk to her, but other than that... 
Sally Heep:  You can pull some strings? 
Brad Chase:  What about Alan Shore? He’s the one that pulls rab bits. 
Sally Heep:  He’s not a partner. You are. Besides I slept with Alan Shore. How objective can he be? 
Brad Chase:  You also slept with me. Did you ever think that mi ght be part of the problem? 
Sally Heep:  She is stunned. She raises her right hand to strike  him, he grabs her hand in mid air. She 
raises her left hand, he grabs it.  That was unfair. Kicking me while I’m down? I guess  I should have expected 
it. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Alan’s office. Bern ard is with Alan.  
Bernard Ferrion:  The police want to question me. 
Alan Shore:  That’s really a stunner, Bernie. They arrested you last week, for whacking your mother. You get off 
on a technicality. Now? The woman next door turns u p dead from a blow to the head. What could possibly  
make them think of you? 
Bernard Ferrion:  Should I talk to them? 
Alan Shore:  I wouldn’t! Where you once were convincing? You no w are anything but! 
Bernard Ferrion:  I don’t like it when you speak to me in these hurt ful tones. I am not an evil person. 
Alan Shore:  Yes! You are Bernie! You’ve killed two people insi de of a week. By definition that makes you evil. 
This last killing was premeditated, calculated. You  went over there as you said, to dispatch a human b eing. 
You’re a little bug. And like a little bug, you wil l one day get stepped on. Now go away. I do not rep resent evil 
people. Bernard is stunned and doesn’t move. I asked you to leave. 
Bernard Ferrion:  May I say one more thing? You cut me to the quick.  I am a bug. My mother would often tell 
me, I am nothing more than an insignificant little. .. she used to call me a dung beetle! When I killed  her, as she 
lay on the floor? For the first time I felt alive! I had actually done something! Perhaps a part of me  sought to 
relive that power. But today I, I, I do, I feel evi l. I need your help, Alan. The police want to interr ogate me. I don’t 
know what to do. 
Tara Wilson:  She comes in. Could I...? Oh! I’m so sorry. 
Alan Shore:  That’s okay. Tara Wilson? Meet Bernard Ferrion. He  kills people with cookware. Allegedly of 
course. Bernie?... Tara! She’s your new lawyer. 
Bernard Ferrion:  No, I’d prefer you. 
Alan Shore:  No, you can’t have me. One reason being. I know to o much. If you want this firm to help you, Tara 
is your lawyer! 
Bernard Ferrion:  She’s very fetching. But, is, she good? 
Alan Shore:  He gives Bernard a look, then turns to Tara. The police wanna talk to him. There’s an excellent 
chance you can avoid the prison term he very much d eserves. I must warn you, do not come to care for t his 
man. He will let you down. That’s all. 
Tara Wilson:  Let’s go, Mr Ferrion. 
Tara and Bernard leave. 
Alan Shore:  He presses a button on the intercom. Nora? When you get a minute. 
 
A few minutes later Nora is sitting across from Ala n. 
Alan Shore:  Why did you feel compelled to speak to Shirley Sch midt? Why didn’t you just take it up with me? 
Nora Jacobs:  I don’t know. I suppose... I guess I didn’t feel I could hold my own with you. Which I guess, is a 
part of the problem. 10 Alan Shore:  “Alan, I’m uncomfortable with the banter.” You cou ld have said that. You did participate in the 
banter? 
Nora Jacobs:  I participated. I of course, wanted to be liked by  my boss. But then... it started to go too far. 
Alan Shore:  And when it went too far? Why not tell me? 
Nora Jacobs:  I don’t know. Because I’d let it go on. I felt may be I gotten myself in... At the seminars you get th e 
impression that the senior people here are good at dealing with these things. I wanted you to stop. Bu t I still like 
you, and like working for you, and I was hoping the y maybe they had a way to solve the problem without  any 
hurt feelings. Alan doesn’t speak. So what happens now? 
 
In Judge William Howe’s courtroom. Walter is in the  witness chair. 
Walter Fife:  We actually call it Intelligent Design. Basically the idea is, life is so complex, a Greater Power ha s to 
be at play. 
Lori Colson:  The Greater Power being God? 
Walter Fife:  We’re by no means... 
Shirley Schmidt:  She looks over at Denny. He’s sleeping.  Denny? 
Denny wakes up. 
Walter Fife:  … shutting down Darwinism or suggesting that evolu tion is inaccurate. 
Lori Colson:  Do you believe in evolution, Mr Fife? 
Walter Fife:  I happen to believe in both God and evolution. I d on’t think the two have to be mutually exclusive. 
Lori Colson:  So, why not simply offer the Intelligent Design th eory in religion courses? Why Science? 
Walter Fife:  Well, we thought long and hard about that. But the  simple truth is, more and more scientists, 
scientists, not theologians have said that when you  examine the intricacies of the human cell, the mat hematical 
equations of DNA, you simply cannot conclude that i t’s all explained by natural selection. Another Pow er has to 
be at work. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  God? 
Walter Fife:  Well again, we never mention Him by name. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  You’re aware of the separation of Church and State ? 
Walter Fife:  I’m aware. 
Denny Crane:  Under his breath, to Shirley. This is boring crap. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  And you’re also aware that the Supreme Court has b anned the teaching of 
Creationism. 
Walter Fife:  Well. As I said, technically we’re not calling it Creationism. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  But you admitted that’s what’s going on. And Creat ionism holds that God created the 
world about 6,000 years ago in 6 days? 
Walter Fife:  That’s not my view. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  But it’s a view you’re insisting your teachers exp lain in the Science class? 
Walter Fife:  As a theory. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  A theory with no Scientific bases other than to sa y… “Gee, evolution can’t account for 
it all.” 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Tara is in her office.  Bernard is with her. He is wearing helmet. 
Tara Wilson:  Why the helmet? 
Bernard Ferrion:  Well it wouldn’t be for here. It would be for at h ome. Well, the thinking being, if there’s 
someone in the neighborhood breaking into houses, w hacking people, from behind, on the head, it would make 
sense for me to wear a helmet. I want to exude inno cence, you see. 
Tara Wilson:  Get rid of the helmet. 
Bernard Ferrion:  But Ms Wilson, at, at my core, I’m a little man. I t would make sense for me to want to protect 
myself. Right? 
Tara Wilson:  Get rid of the helmet. You look ridiculous. Now li sten to me. The police have asked for a DNA 
sample, and I’m gonna agree. 
Bernard Ferrion:  What? Why on earth? 
Tara Wilson:  Because they could get one with a court order. The re’s no point in opposing. 
Bernard Ferrion:  But what about my right to not incriminate myself?  
Tara Wilson:  Cooperation goes a long way towards exuding innoce nce, Mr Ferrion. Much better than hockey 
head gear. 
Bernard Ferrion:  You know, everyone is speaking to me in hurtful to nes and I don’t appreciate it. I did kill 
people. You’d think I’d incur a little shock and aw e, if not respect. 10 Tara Wilson:  Is that why you did this? To inspire awe? Alan Sho re told me that your mother referred to you as a 
dung beetle. 
Bernard Ferrion:  Please don’t mention that particular species to me . I don’t know what else Alan told you, but, 
I’m a kind man. I have admittedly committed two hei nous acts, but the first was not voluntary, and the  second 
was out of desperation. Not wanting to go to prison  where bigger men will have their way with me. Ms W ilson, I 
need your help. Please be on my side. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt. Sally is in her office . 
Brad Chase:  He comes in. I’m sorry. That remark was way outta line. Listen, Sally, it didn’t help that you were 
with me a year and a half ago, and then you were wi th Alan Shore. As gossip, it travels fast. But I ha ve no 
doubt. None! That you are going to be an exceptiona l attorney. But… just not here. They’re never gonna  give 
you the chance. You need to… remake yourself. Start  fresh. You asked me for help, and I’m going to pro vide it 
to you in the form of advice. You need to go. 
 
In Judge William Howe’s courtroom. Roberta Turner i s in the witness chair. 
Roberta Turner:  At the beginning of the school year we got the wor d at our teacher’s assembly, that moral 
values would be one of our educational objectives. Which was fine. But to have Evolution bumped for 
Creationism. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  Well! To be fair, Evolution isn’t being displaced.  Creationism is just being included. 
Roberta Turner:  Evolution is a tough subject matter. We cannot cut into what little class time we have to service 
a political agenda. To teach…  
Lori Colson:  Objection! This is non-responsive. 
Judge William Howe:  Please limit your answers to the questions, ma’m. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  Why can’t you view Intelligent Design as a Science , Ms Turner? 
Roberta Turner:  Because! There is simply no scientific data to supp ort it. How are we to maintain any credibility 
as Science teachers if we say, “Gee! Despite all th is data, there’s also another possibility.” Intelli gent Design 
makes a mockery of Science. If you wanna teach it a s religion course? Fine! But as a Science? It’s sim ply 
preposterous. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Tara’s office. Tara  is talking with Dective Willet while a police 
technician is taking a tongue swab from Bernard.  
Detective Willet:  I just don’t understand why you wouldn’t wanna tal k. If there’s a serial killer loose in his 
neighborhood…? 
Tara Wilson:  He’d love to talk. I’m not letting him. 
Bernard Ferrion:  I’d tell you one thing…  
Tara Wilson:  Bernard! You people wrongly arrested him last time with no evidence, after his mother recklessly 
accused him. Now it’s clear there is somebody in th e neighborhood killing people. You haven’t so much as 
apologized to Mr Ferrion for ruining his good name.  Why should we expect any fair treatment from you? 
Police Technician:  I’m done. 
Detective Willet:  Once again I’ll encourage your client not to leave  the jurisdiction. 
Bernard Ferrion:  Bully boy! 
Tara Wilson:  Bernard!  
The two policemen leave.  
Bernard Ferrion:  You handled that deftly. So what now? 
Tara Wilson:  You can go home. If indeed you left no traces behi nd, and assuming they find no DNA, and with 
no smoking skillet,you’ll likely get away with it o nce again. 
Bernard Ferrion:  You’re using a judgmental tone. 
Tara Wilson:  Do you really expect us not to condemn you? You ki lled two people! 
Bernard Ferrion:  I expect you to condemn my actions, but, I suppose  not me! 
Tara Wilson:  You can go. 
Bernard Ferrion:  He moves to leave then turns back.  How’s Alan? 
Tara Wilson:  Honestly? I think he’s hurt. You hear all the time  how clients are let down by their lawyers, 
sometimes it’s the attorney who’s let down by the c lient. As silly as it may sound the cynical, jaded Alan Shore 
gets a bit desperate sometimes to believe in the go odness of mankind. He found, I think, some hope in you. 
And you crushed it. Like a bug. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Alan’s office, Alan and Nora are sitting on couches. 
Nora Jacobs:  You’re firing me? 10 Alan Shore:  Certainly not. I’d get sued. I’m reassigning you. 
Nora Jacobs:  If I get put back into the pool that’s the same as  a demotion. 
Alan Shore:  Nora, I’m not going to change who I am. I can work  on it, but leaps and bounds I’ll never make. 
When I look at women… most women… my mind wanders i nvariably to sexual fantasy of a board and curious 
nature, unfettered by moral restraint. I can’t help  it. I realize this candor could come back to haunt  me should 
you indeed file a claim, but when I look at you I o ften conger up the most intimate and explicit of di stractions. 
That’s not going to change. You are a sexually attr active.... Shirley comes in and stands at the door. Beast! 
Could you excuse us, Shirley? I’m dictating a lette r. Shirley leaves. I give you my word; you will not get a 
demotion. Shirley is right outside the door eavesdropping. I also offer you my gratitude for making me 
realize that sometimes women play along and yet nev er-the-less fell harassed. I suppose it’s the callo us idiot 
who can’t appreciate that. I apologize for being th at idiot. Nora gets up to leave. Nora? The next time that 
someone does something to you that you don’t like, be direct. I assure you, you’re up to it. 
Nora leaves. 
Shirley Schmidt:  She comes back in. That was very eloquent. Thank you. 
Alan Shore:  You need to get me another secretary, Shirley. Some one more willing to be harassed. 
Shirley Schmidt:  I’ll see what I can do. 
 
In Judge William Howe’s courtroom Attorney Daniel G ellman is giving his closing.  
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  These are bad times for Science your Honor. Especi ally at the hands of moral values. 
The government has systematically distorted or wors e, suppressed findings by the FDA and EPA when it 
comes to contraception, stem cell research. AIDS, g lobal warming, pollution…  
Judge William Howe:  Let’s just stick to the case, Counsel, and leave p olitics out of it. 
Attorney Daniel Gellman:  This case is all about politics. It’s about gettin g religion back into schools. Creationism 
is religious doctrine; it is not supported by scien tific data. I’m a Christian. My wife is a Jew. We h ave wonderful 
debates. And this country, as a whole should be mor e theologically literate, but it’s not Science! Wha t’s 
happening here today is an attack on evolution. It’ s clever. Let’s call it Intelligent Design. Let’s n ot mention God. 
But, come on! The Supreme Court banned the teaching  of Creationism in the public schools. They were ri ght 
then, they remain right today, and my client’s disc harge was unlawful, as well in violation of our time  honored 
tradition of separating Church and State. Of course  we have a legitimate Cause of Action. 
Shirley Schmidt:  That was almost Evangelical. The Establishment Cla use prohibits the endorsement of, or 
discrimination against any particular religion. But  it was never meant to extinguish the notion of a H igher Power. 
I certainly believe in evolution. Who here among us , while watching the presidential debates could den y that we 
all come from monkeys. But, what’s so wrong with su ggesting, as a possible theory, that a Higher Power  might 
have also played a part? As for Church and State, w e go to war over God-given rights to Democracy. Let ’s face 
it. God is big here. We love God, and we as a natio n have an overwhelming belief He had something to d o with 
the creation of human-kind. But, teach that in a Sc ience class? Perish the thought. Nobody here is try ing to 
squash evolution, and I would agree with Mr Gellman , it isn’t good Science to suppress information. Bu t, I would 
ask the court, who here today is trying to do the s quashing? 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Tara’s office, Bern ard is with Tara. 
Bernard Ferrion:  I thought if I went to trial it would offer me a c hance to clear my name. 
Tara Wilson:  Clear your name! You…  did it! 
Bernard Ferrion:  But nobody knows that. 
Tara Wilson:  Have you gone mad? They haven’t got any evidence. They can’t even arrest you. And you’re here 
asking to go to trial! What is the matter with you? 
Bernard Ferrion:  The suspense of them building a case! It’s just to o much to bare! He sighs.  I’m lonely. All I 
ever had was my mother and I killed her. The only o ther person who ever, ever talked to me was my neig hbor. 
Killed her too! How’s Alan? I miss him. 
Tara Wilson:  Bernard? Unless something else happens here, your case is over. Now I can appreciate that 
you’re lonely, but you need to find a life for your self now. 
Bernard Ferrion:  But uhm… How do I do that? 
Tara Wilson:  Bernard? Your case status at the moment, is over. 
Bernard Ferrion:  Okay. Okay. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Alan’s office, Alan  sits down to read some papers.  
Catherine Piper:  She comes in. Alan! Hello! 
Alan Shore:  Mrs Piper? 10 Catherine Piper:  You remember! Ha, ha, ha. Oh, I always say, “Shake  a man’s hand with dog poop on your 
glove, he’ll remember you for life.” 
Alan Shore:  I remember you because I trick-or-treated at you h ouse. 
Catherine Piper:  How are you dear? You don’t look well. 
Alan Shore:  What are you doing here? 
Catherine Piper:  I’m applying for the position of your secretary of  course. I heard what happened to the last one, 
and I must say, your problem… most people aren’t ab le to see that beneath your slick and sensitive ext erior, 
deep down you really are douche bag. I get that, Ala n. You’d have no misunderstanding with me. 
Bernard Ferrion:  He comes in. Mr Shore? 
Catherine Piper:  My, my! What an adorable little man. Are you a mid get, Dear? 
Bernard Ferrion:  I uh, I just wanna say that I am deeply sorry. And  I assure you that I’m gonna try to live up to 
all the potential that you saw in me as a human bei ng. I give you my word. He leaves.  
Catherine Piper:  Well, that was sweet. So? Do I get the job? 
 
In Judge William Howe’s courtroom  
Judge William Howe:  Nobody, is more frightened than I am of the Religi ous Right getting a strangle hold on our 
values. 
Lori Colson:  Under her breath. This is the part where we get spanked. 
Judge William Howe: It seems as long as you do it in the name of the Al mighty, one is free to abandon not only 
common sense and Science, but also the facts. But I  am also concerned about a secular society squeezin g 
faith out of our lives. We’ve all witnessed the rid iculous lawsuits to stop Nativity scenes at Christm as, to take 
God out of the Pledge of Allegiance. God has always  been a part of who and what we are as a nation. On  our 
currency it reads, ‘In God we trust.’ The Declarati on of Independence speaks of God. How we are create d, 
endowed by our creator it references our Supreme Ju dge of the world and Divine Providence, God. And I’ m 
sorry, anybody who has ever held a new born child i n his hands must make room for the chance that a Hi gher 
Power exists. And it shouldn’t offend you west Scie ntists to say, “Hey! We just don’t know.” I find th e decision to 
include Intelligent Design along with evolution int o the Science curriculum does not violate the estab lishment 
cause of the First Amendment. I’m ruling in favor o f the defendant. This lawsuit is dismissed. He pounds his 
gavel.  
Shirley Schmidt:  Oh boy! 
Denny Crane:  Was it interesting? I didn’t listen to a word. 
Walter Fife:  Thank you. Thank you, both. 
Lori Colson:  Good luck Mr Fife. Oh, what’s the expression? 
Walter Fife:  Go with God. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Sally is in her office . 
Brad Chase:  He comes in. So when are your leaving? 
Sally Heep:  Is there a big rush? 
Brad Chase:  I didn’t mean it like that. 
Sally Heep:  I’m leaving now. Tonight. 
Brad Chase:  You know for what it’s worth, Shirley can be very draconian, and when she makes up her mind it’s 
not…  
Sally Heep:  I, I have nothing against Shirley. In fact she did n’t even really hurt me, Shirley doesn’t know me. 
You do. Lori does. Alan does. A lot of people, none  of whom took issue with Shirley. The silent majori ty has 
spoken, Brad. With a resounding roar. Every knock i s a boost. I’m gonna cling to that and a few other clichés for 
a while, and then, you’ll all see me again. In cour t, across the deposition table, you’ll all see me a gain. That’s a 
promise. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Alan is in his office,  Tara is with him. Through an interior window looki ng 
to the outer office Alan observes Sally hugging and  saying goodbye to someone.  
Tara Wilson:  He’s just so profoundly lonely. Alan looks at her.  Bernard. 
Alan Shore:  He came to apologize. 
Tara Wilson:  I actually think that he wanted to get arrested be cause he’s so starved for attention. 
Alan Shore:  He is still watching Sally make her goodbyes. I hate this job. 
Tara Wilson:  Well. you warned me not to care for him. 
Alan Shore:  Tara don’t. Do not let yourself. 
Tara Wilson:  Well it’s over now. He’s gone, what’s done is done . 
Alan Shore:  It’s not over, that’s the problem. 10 Tara Wilson:  What do you mean? 
Alan Shore:  He’ll kill again. 
Tara Wilson:  Huh. What! Did he say that? 
Alan Shore:  No. But I just get the feeling. He’ll kill again. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Shirley is out on the balcony, Lori joins her. 
Lori Colson:  What are you doing out here? 
Shirley Schmidt:  Just looking at the city. Still trying to fathom t hat… 
Lori Colson:  The Red Sox won? 
Shirley Schmidt:  Ha. What’s this? 
Lori Colson:  The boys do it. Thought we’d give it a try. 
Shirley Schmidt:  You wanna smoke cigars? 
Lori Colson:  Uh hum. The passing of the torch, from the boys cl ub, to us! 
Shirley Schmidt:  Well, I’ll smoke to that. Lori lights Shirley’s cigar. She takes a few puffs.   Ugh! Awful! 
Lori Colson:  Here, let me try. 
Shirley Schmidt:  Ugh! 
Lori Colson:  She takes a puff. That’s terrible! 
Shirley Schmidt:  He-he. Well! This makes it official. We’ve evolved  more than they have. 
Lori Colson:  Is it a good thing we won today? 
Shirley Schmidt:  I don’t know. 
Lori Colson:  You believe in a Higher Power, right? It wasn’t ju st advocacy in that room. 
Shirley Schmidt:  With what’s going on the world, I need to believe.  But…  
Lori Colson:  But what? 
Shirley Schmidt:  God forbid, the next court says it’s okay to ban ev olution from the schools. 
Lori Colson:  Yeah. God forbid. 