 1 Boston Legal  
Loose Lips 
Season 1, Episode 8 
Written by Jonathan Shapiro & David E. Kelley 
© 2004 David E. Kelley Productions.  All Rights Res erved 
Airdate:  November 28, 2004 
Transcribed by Sheri for boston-legal.org [version updated June 17, 2006] 
 
Conference Room of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore sits at the staff meeting in full Santa regalia  
Paul Lewiston:   This is a staff meeting, Mr. Shore. 
Alan Shore:   I realize that. 
Paul Lewiston:   Why are you in a Santa suit? 
Alan Shore:   It’s after Thanksgiving.  Surely you’re not sugge sting I still dress as a pilgrim. 
Paul Lewiston:   And who is this?  gesturing at a little woman dressed as an elf  
Alan Shore:   She’s my elf.  Sometimes, especially after Santa’ s been drinking, he needs a little helper. 
Paul Lewiston:   Have you been drinking today? 
Alan Shore:   No.  Today I just brought her for amusement.  My doctors are concerned these staff meetings 
could cause me to lapse into a coma. 
Paul Lewiston:   I see.  Well, since privileged information is exc hanged during these staff meetings, your helper 
will have to leave. 
Alan Shore:   rolls his eyes, then addresses his elf quietly   Would you wait in my office, dear? 
Elf:   Sure. 
Alan Shore holds her chair for her as she gets off the chair and leaves 
Brad Chase:   Actually, there’s that, uh, walk-in.  He’s waitin g in reception.  Maybe Alan should take that. 
Paul Lewiston:   Perhaps you’re right. 
Brad Chase:   A wrongful termination.  A guy was fired as a dep artment store Santa.   
Alan Shore laughs 
Brad Chase:   I mean, since you seem to have such a connection with the subject matter . . . 
Denny Crane:   I’ll do it. 
Paul Lewiston stares at Denny Crane 
Denny Crane:   I’ve always wanted a Santa case. 
Brad Chase:   Oh, this is much more right for Alan. 
Denny Crane:   I said, I’ll do it.  Where is he? 
Brad Chase:   Uh, in reception. 
Denny Crane arises, and walks into the: 
 
Reception Area of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Denny Crane:   Gil Furnald? 
A man and woman continue their conversation without  looking up. 
Gil Furnald:  a man wearing a dress, reading a newspaper   That’s me. 
Denny Crane:   No, it isn’t. 
Gil Furnald:  Yes, it is. 
Denny Crane:   No, it isn’t. 
Gil Furnald:  sighing   Ho, ho, ho! Deal with it. 
 
Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Tara Wilson:   Alan. 
Alan Shore:   Tara. 
Tara Wilson:   What’s with the woman? 
Alan Shore:   What woman? 
Tara Wilson:   What woman?! The one you brought to the staff mee ting. 
Alan Shore:   She’s my elf, Tara.  I thought I was quite clear on that. 
Tara Wilson:   Yes.  Very amusing.  Why is she here? 
Alan Shore:   Well, it seems I’ve put on a few pounds since las t year, so she brought me my new suit.  I do 
some work with the Salvation Army.  We work as a te am, actually.  Is there a problem?  2 Tara Wilson:   Not at all. 
Alan Shore:   But? 
Tara Wilson:   Not that I’ve been doing background checks, but I  have a friend who evidently knows an old 
friend of yours, and . . . 
Alan Shore:   And? 
Tara Wilson:   You once cohabited with a little person. 
Alan Shore:   Two lovely years.  I lived with her for three. 
Tara Wilson:   Do you have a thing for little women? 
Alan Shore:   I have a thing for women.  You’ve never fallen fo r someone shorter than you? 
Tara Wilson:   Well, I believe I’m involved with one now. 
Alan Shore:   shifting his newspaper and posture to compare heigh t to hers   Either you’re mistaken, or I’m 
jealous.  And he ambles away.  
 
[credits] 
 
Dr. Konigsberg’s Office 
Lori Colson:   It’s just very difficult to reconcile being drawn  to a person I consider, well, repugnant. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Oh, you think you’re the first good girl to fall for a bad boy? 
Lori Colson:   Is my problem annoying you? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   No, I’m sorry.  I—I just meant to convey it’s ver y common for women to be attracted to men 
they don’t admire.  What could be at play here? The re are qualities in yourself you don’t like or qual ities about 
Alan Shore you wish you had. 
Lori Colson:   That isn’t it.  I like myself just fine. 
Dr. Konigsberg laughs, shaking his head. 
Lori Colson:   chuckles   I saw that. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Uh, look.  This is not a great day for me.  Perha ps we should reschedule? 
Lori Colson:   Okay.  They both arise.   Is everything okay? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Yeah.  pause as Lori Colson picks up her purse and jacket   Could I speak to you as a 
lawyer? 
Lori Colson:   Uh, sure.  making a circular gesture with her hand   But you’re gonna have to face the little 
clock towards me. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   This is all privileged, right? Lawyer-client? 
Lori Colson:   Of course. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Look, I—I have a patient who’s been with me for a lmost four years now.  And he, um, he 
habitually speaks of fantasies, things he plans to do.  They’re typically idle ruminations, I suppose— make him 
feel better.  Lately he’s been talking about murder ing his ex-wife.  And at first I thought, harmless chatter again.  
But there seems to be such a resolve.  Lori, I can’ t be sure that it isn’t real this time.  This man m ay very well 
be planning to kill his ex-wife, and I’m just not s ure what to do. 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Gil Furnald:  sigh   I just like wearing women’s clothes sometimes.  I t’s not a sexual turn-on. It . . well . . . it just  
feels right sometimes. 
Denny Crane:   So, basically, you’re a sicko? 
Gil Furnald:  I’m not sick. 
Denny Crane:   Lighten up, man.  So, what? You got caught in a s kirt and that was it? 
Gil Furnald:  My employer found out, and, yes, I got fired.  They  asked me a lot of questions, like whether I’m 
gay. 
Denny Crane:   Are you? Ah, not that there’s anything wrong with  it. 
Gil Furnald:  Yes.  But that does not make me an unfit Santa. 
Denny Crane:   Criminal record? 
Gil Furnald:  No.  No, no, no, no, no.  And there’s never been an y incident.  I have been a good Santa for eight 
years.  A great  Santa.  I can show you the letters.  There are kid s and families who have specifically come 
back for me.  And I thought, this is wrong.  I shou ld not lose my job because of how I like to dress. 
 
Dr. Konigsberg’s Office 
Dr. Konigsberg is putting a videotape in a TV with a VHS player.  3 Lori Colson:   Does he know you taped him? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   No.  I’m just full of ethical violations.  turns on the VHS player  
Brian Stevens (TV):   It’s important that I do it with my hands.  I don ’t know why.  You could probably tell me 
why.  But see, the thing is, I don’t want to shoot her or, uh, poison her or hit her with a car.  No.  It needs to be 
by strangulation. 
Dr. Konigsberg (TV):   Do you have any guess as to why? 
Brian Stevens (TV):   Well, for one, I actually want to feel the life g oing out of her.  I mean, with my hands, I 
want to feel her body go limp.  Also, I want her to experience it.  I want her to know that she’s dying.  And I 
want to see her eyes as I do it. 
Dr. Konigsberg  turns off the tape with his remote. 
Lori Colson:   And how do you know that this isn’t just talk? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   I keep telling you, I don’t know.  I—I mean, he’s  often fantasized.  L-last year he spoke of 
blowing up his boss.  But his demeanor here—as I sa id, there’s a certain resolve that really concerns me. 
Lori Colson:   Have you shown this to any other therapists or . . . 
Dr. Konigsberg:   No, no, no.  I’m the only one who can make that c all. 
Lori Colson:   And your call is it’s possible he’s going to do i t? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Do I tell the ex-wife? 
Lori Colson:   Well, I’m sure you know the law on this as well a s I do.  I mean, you have a duty to warn the 
victim if you’re reasonably certain she’s in physic al danger. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   But falling short of being certain? 
Lori Colson:   You honor doctor-patient privilege. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   This just seems crazy to me.  I—I—I mean which si de is better to err on? 
 
Denny Crane’s Office 
Gil Furnald:  A trial today? 
Denny Crane:   Well, it’s not exactly a trial.  It’s an evidenti ary hearing. 
Gil Furnald:  But I’d need to testify? 
Denny Crane:   It’s the only way you can get a restraining order .  We’ll lose the dress, by the way.  Coat and tie.   
He sees Alan Shore walking down the hall.  Alan! Excellent! gestures out the door   Alan, Gil Furnald, Alan 
Shore.  steps out the door, hand on Alan Shore’s shoulder   Alan.  Turns out that my Santa Claus is a sort 
of cross-dressing sicko.  He’s more . . . you.  
Alan Shore:   He is absolutely more me, Denny.  But, unfortunat ely, my schedule . . . 
Denny Crane:   Alan, I have trouble with this sort of subject ma tter. 
Alan Shore:   You’re homophobic. 
Denny Crane:   It’s not that. 
Alan Shore:   What is it then? 
Denny Crane:   It’s my father.  Sometimes he wore dresses.  He c alled it a kilt and sang all those Scottish 
songs, but we knew.  Please, the hearing’s at 2 o’c lock. 
Denny Crane walks away.  Alan Shore goes into his o ffice and shakes hands with Gil Furnald.  
Alan Shore:   Hello. 
Gil Furnald:  Hello. 
 
Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore:   Sally.  Could I trouble you to do a quick backgro und check? I realize we haven’t spoken much 
since we stopped having sex and, frankly, I’m disma yed by that.  But what I need to know is everything  you can 
find out about my new client.  handing her a blue sticky note   Here’s his name, address, Social Security . . . 
Brad Chase:   Is it true, you’re taking over the Santa case? 
Alan Shore:   Yes, I am, Bradley.  Is it of interest to you? 
Brad Chase:   No.  But it could be, if we, say, bet on it. 
Alan Shore:   Another wager. 
Brad Chase:   Why not? 
Alan Shore:   And would you already have stakes in mind? 
Brad Chase:   I keep thinking about your elf.  How ‘bout if you  win, I become your elf for the day, but if you los e, 
you become mine? Complete with a costume, of course . 
Alan Shore:   And bells. 
Brad Chase:   Oh, can’t leave out the bells.  4 Lori Colson:   Alan? Hey.  Can I steal you for a second? 
Alan Shore:   A second? A minute I could maybe do, but a second  would be pushing it.  Would you like me to 
push it? 
Lori Colson:   You are so disgustingly vulgar.  It’s important. 
 
Lori Colson’s Office 
Dr. Konigsberg is waiting in her office; he arises when Lori Colson enters, Alan Shore close behind. 
Lori Colson:   This is Dr. Konigsberg.  Alan Shore. 
Alan Shore:   Hello. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Ohh, Alan Shore.  He looks meaningfully at Lori.  Hunh. 
Lori Colson:   Uh, Dr. Konigsberg has a patient who talks about killing his ex-wife and could be serious about it. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   “Could” is the operative word.  I can’t be sure. 
Lori Colson:   Obviously there are some exposure problems.  I me an, if the guy does do it, and it was learned 
Dr. Konigsberg knew of the risks beforehand . . . 
Alan Shore:   The first thing I’d check is his malpractice poli cy.  You don’t want to do anything to void coverage . 
Lori Colson:   I have done that already. 
Alan Shore:   What’s your specialty? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Couples counseling.  I first saw the client and h is wife together.  Since the divorce, I’ve been 
working with him alone. 
Alan Shore:   So they came to you to improve their relationship , and now one wants to kill the other.  Not your 
best work, was it, Doctor?  turns to Lori Colson   And you’re seeing Dr. Konigsberg for what? 
Lori Colson:   Uh, just to deal with the . . . as a lawyer.  He hired me. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   chuckling   He’s a very mischievous man. 
Lori Colson:   Look, can we stick to the case, folks? 
Alan Shore:   Since the proposed victim was or is a patient, yo u’ve got real duty problems.  If the threat is real , 
and you don’t tell her . . . 
Dr. Konigsberg:   But I can’t be sure it’s real, which means my dut y is to the patient. 
Alan Shore:   Can you have another therapist meet with him, per haps get an objective opinion? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   I tried.  No therapist will go near it for fear o f potential liability. 
Alan Shore:   Well, if it were me, I’d meet with him myself, pr etending to be one of your colleagues. 
Lori Colson:   That’s hardly an option. 
Alan Shore:   Why? You need objectivity . . . 
Lori Colson:   You can’t go there pretending to be a doctor. 
Alan Shore:   Of course I can’t, because I’m in trial.  But you  can do it. 
Lori Colson:   Oh, sure.  And get disbarred? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   I’d likely lose my license. 
Alan Shore:   Oh, well.  Silly me.  I was thinking about the ex -wife.  If it’s merely a bar card and a medical 
license you’re looking to preserve, you first opine  to Lori that you’re not at all convinced the man i ntends to 
follow through on his threats.  Then, you draft an opinion letter to the doctor telling him he need no t disclose.  
Your respective asses will be covered, and everybod y’s happy, assuming you like your asses covered.  
Personally, I love the feel of a stiff breeze again st my rosy cheeks.  In any event, pardon my misunde rstanding.  
I thought it was potentially human life at stake. 
Alan Shore walks out, closes the door, leaving Lori  Colson and Dr. Konigsberg with a decision to 
make. 
 
 
Court Hallway 
Brad Chase is talking to another attorney. 
Brad Chase:   Oh, excuse me.  Sylvia. 
Sylvia:   What do you want now? 
Brad Chase:   Why do you always think I want something? Why cou ldn’t it be that I just want to see the smiling 
face of the prettiest girl in the clerk’s office? 
Sylvia:   What do you want, Brad? 
Brad Chase:   I need a small favor—tiny. 
Sylvia:   Mmm. 
Brad Chase:   But first, please, can I see that smile?  5 Sylvia:   laughs and smiles   God. 
Brad Chase:   If I were 10 years younger. 
Sylvia:   Or 10 years older.  What’s the favor? 
Brad Chase:   There’s a motion scheduled for this afternoon—Fur nald vs Gordon’s Department Store.  A lawyer 
named Alan Shore is seeking injunctive relief, unla wful discharge.  I need this case to fall in Judge Hingham’s 
docket. 
Sylvia:   Judge Hingham? Why would you want him? 
Brad Chase:   Because he’s just right for this one. 
Sylvia:   Exactly what kind of case is this? 
 
Courtroom 
Judge Harry Hingham:   A ho-mo-sexual? That’s where we’re at now? Santa Clauses being played by ho-mo-
sexuals? 
Alan Shore:   I believe “homosexual” is one word, Judge.  But t o avoid confusion, let’s say, “gay.” 
Atty. Phillips:   Let’s say, “transvetite,” because that was the st ated reason . . . 
Alan Shore:   Well, if dress code is the issue, my client promi ses to comply with . . . 
Judge Harry Hingham:   A ho-mo-sexual transvestite?  
Brad Chase is sitting in the gallery, watching the proceedings. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   You want me to allow children to sit in his lap? 
Atty. Phillips:   Exactly. 
Alan Shore:   Oh, boy. 
Atty. Phillips:   Gordon’s Department Store certainly supports Mr. Furnald’s right to choose who or what he . . . 
Alan Shore:   That’s a lie.  You fired him as soon as he told y ou he was gay. 
Atty. Phillips:   No, we fired him for cross-dressing, which is con sidered a fetish. 
Alan Shore:   He’s played Santa for eight years without inciden t.  In fact, he’s received glowing praise from both  
parents and employers. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   Would you sit in his lap? 
Alan Shore:   Sure.  Why not?  And he does.   And he hasn’t gone homo erectus  on me, if that was your fear. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   You’re making entendres .  Disgusting, sick, innuendo entendres . 
Alan Shore mouths the word, “ Entendres ” to ADA. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   I’m not going to put an innocent child in the lap  of an unnatural Santa Claus who 
dresses in female attire.  There is a sanctity to t he tradition of Christmas.  It is perhaps the  most sanctimonious 
holiday there is. 
Alan Shore:   Then clearly, you should be its poster boy. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   Motion for T.R.O. denied. 
Alan Shore:   I’d at least like an evidentiary hearing so that I may present . . . 
Judge Harry Hingham:   Denied.  Denied, denied, denied.  bangs gavel 
Brad Chase is clearly quite pleased with this decis ion; he waves at Alan Shore 
Gil Furnald:  Why’d you do that? You antagonized him. 
Alan Shore:   Actually, he antagonized me. 
Gil Furnald:  This job means something to me, Mr. Shore. 
Alan Shore steps toward the bench, as Judge Hingham  is headed out the door. 
Alan Shore:   Your Honor . . . 
Judge Harry Hingham:   I have made my ruling. 
Alan Shore:   Yes, based on what you  think my client is or what the defense has present ed him to be.  I ask you 
to at least hear from him before you take away his livelihood.  Ten minutes as to why he’d make a good  Santa.  
Please. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   I’ll give you 10 minutes—5 for direct, 5 for cros s. 
 
Dr Konigsberg’s Office 
Brian Stevens:   I don’t understand why she’s here. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   I explained it, Brian.  When a patient makes a cr edible threat to commit violence, my 
colleague is here to observe because I may need cou nsel. 
Brian Stevens:   Why? You should’ve told me this before. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Brian, would you tell Dr. Harper why you want to kill your ex-wife? 
Brian Stevens:   I have no intention of killing her.  6 Dr. Konigsberg:   You don’t? 
Brian Stevens:   Of course not.  Murder is illegal in Massachusett s. 
Lori Colson:   So when you were saying these things to Dr. Konig sberg . . . 
Brian Stevens:   I never said them.  Dr. Konigsberg is mistaken.  I also have absolutely no intention of paying 
for two therapists.  Good-bye.  Takes his coat and walks out.  
Lori Colson:   Clearly, he’s a little hostile. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Well, he’s angry over you being here, and I . . .  I can’t say that I blame him. 
Lori Colson:   Well, I don’t know if there’s enough to go to the  police, but I think you should at least tell his e x-
wife. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Will you go with me? 
Lori Colson:   Me? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Lori, I’m about to break privilege, and I could v ery well be sued for it.  This is treacherous 
ground, and I would like my lawyer present.  So, pl ease, do this with me. 
 
Buddha Bar 
Alan Shore:   I’m afraid my words are having little impact.  Yo urs’ll have to. 
Gil Furnald:  Okay. 
Alan Shore:   You said this job means something to you, and you  seemed rather impassioned. 
Gil Furnald:  I am. 
Alan Shore:   You have a college education, Mr. Furnald.  You d o well in your computer job.  Why is this part-
time employment so important? 
Gil Furnald:  I don’t know. 
Alan Shore:   Yes, you do. 
Gil Furnald:  I suppose . . . As a kid—a gay kid who liked to wea r dresses—that club is very small, by the 
way—most cross-dressers are heterosexual . . . Anyw ay, um, as a kid who felt like he didn’t belong any where, 
I would throw myself into all the make-believe that  goes with Christmas.  Hmm.  As safe retreats go, I  suppose 
it helped me survive . . . and it still does.  Shal l I say that tomorrow? 
Alan Shore:   Say all of it. 
 
Lori Colson’s Office 
Lori Colson:   Would you tell? 
Brad Chase:   I don’t know.  I mean, if it’s a fantasy . . . 
Lori Colson:   What if it’s not? 
Brad Chase:   The benefit of the doubt has to go to privilege. 
Lori Colson:   Even when the downside is death? 
Brad Chase:   I’m not saying that it’s an easy call.  gets out of his chair and walks over to the couch t o sit 
next to Lori   He got a hearing. 
Lori Colson:   Sorry? 
Brad Chase:   Shore.  The cross-dressing Santa Claus.  He actua lly got a hearing. 
Lori Colson:   Don’t you think you’re taking this bet thing a li ttle too far? 
Brad Chase:   I’m not making a big deal about this.  I’m just m aking conversation here. 
Lori Colson:   Brad, you don’t like Alan, do you? 
Brad Chase:   I don’t give the guy a thought one way or the oth er. 
Lori Colson:   Can I say something to you as a friend? 
Brad Chase shrugs. 
Lori Colson:   You’ve seemed kind of knotted up ever since he go t here.  It might help you if you just let your 
feelings out a little.  Come on.  It’s late at nigh t.  You’re having a beer with a buddy.  Tell me how  you feel 
about Alan Shore. 
Brad Chase:   I don’t like him. 
Lori Colson:   You can go deeper than that.  What do you feel, B rad? 
Brad Chase:   I hate him.  He mocks me. 
Lori Colson:   Deeper. 
Brad Chase:   He mocks our Commander-in-Chief. 
Lori Colson:   Deeper. 
Brad Chase:   He’s got a putty ass and a flabby body and I can’ t understand why women would rather sleep 
with him than me.  7 Lori Colson:   There.  It’s out. 
Brad Chase:   And that includes you, by the way. 
Lori Colson:   First of all, I don’t sleep with colleagues. 
Brad Chase:   You’re ducking the issue. 
Lori Colson:   I am not.  I have no interest in ducking either o ne of you.  We’ve gone deep enough. 
Brad Chase:   I really need to win this bet. 
 
The Break Room at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Alan Shore:   According to employees at Gordon’s, Gil Furnald g ets nothing but raves as Santa. 
Denny Crane:   Oh, come on.  Would you sit in his lap? 
Alan Shore:   Why does everybody keep asking me that? 
Brad Chase:   Tough break drawing Judge Hingham.  Who’d ever im agine that? 
Alan Shore:   Brad? Did you have something to do with my drawin g Judge Hingham? 
Brad Chase:   That would be dirty pool. 
 
Mary Stevens’ Home 
Brian Stevens (TV):   I actually want to feel the life going out of her .  I mean, with my hands.  I want to feel her 
body go limp.  Also, I want her to experience it.  I want her to know that she’s dying.  And I don’t w ant it to be 
instant.  I want her to actually have the thought, “My God.  He’s killing me.” And I want to see her e yes as I do 
it. 
Mary Stevens:   What’s happened to him? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Let me reiterate.  He’s talked like this before w ithout ever going through with it, obviously.  
Many people fantasize. 
Mary Stevens:   For him to even speak this way . . . This is not Brian.  He is a docile person. 
Dr. Konigsberg:   I realize that.  This might also simply be talk.  Safe talk that allows him to feel strong.  
Sometimes, the weaker the person’s constitution . .  . 
Mary Stevens:   Is he going to kill me? 
Dr. Konigsberg:   Mary, I’m here because I don’t know.  I really do n’t think so.  But you are the one person that 
knows him better than I do. 
Mary Stevens:   I’ve never heard him talk like this, ever.  Did y ou tell the police? 
Lori Colson:   Uh, it’s tricky, Mrs. Stevens.  This is doctor-pa tient privilege stuff.  We shouldn’t even be tellin g 
you this. 
Mary Stevens:   He plans to kill me, for God’s sake! 
Lori Colson:   Which is why we are telling you, on the possibili ty that these threats are . . . 
Mary Stevens:   I’m calling the police. 
Lori Colson:   I’m not sure that they could do anything at this point.  I mean, they certainly can’t arrest him for  
things he told a therapist in confidence.  What I w ould suggest:  Let Dr. Konigsberg continue to monit or he 
situation.  He’s seeing your ex-husband every day.  If things progress further, we will call the polic e.  In the 
meantime, maybe you could stay with a friend. 
Mary Stevens:   I have animals.  I can’t do . . . 
Lori Colson:   Or get a friend to stay with you. 
 
Courtroom 
Gil Furnald:  I’ve been sitting in that chair as Santa for eight years, and I’ve been an exemplary Santa.  People 
will tell you, even if they don’t shop at Gordon’s,  they come to see me. 
Alan Shore:   For how many of those eight years have you been d ressing as a woman? 
Gil Furnald:  All of them. 
Alan Shore:   And in all this time, had your cross-dressing eve r been an issue at work? 
Gil Furnald:  No.  I was always in the Santa costume.  People nev er even knew.  It was always my intention to 
keep my worlds separate.  So, it’s been my secret. 
Alan Shore:   But your secret got out. 
Gil Furnald:  Last week, I had a boy in my lap—eight years old.  I asked him what he wanted for Christmas.  He 
said, “Santa, please make me normal.” He was starti ng to cry as he said it. 
Alan Shore:   He said, “Make me normal”? 
Gil Furnald:  Yes.  He said, um—He said he was sick.  He said tha t he liked to wear girls’ clothes, and he was 
sure he’d go to hell.  And I said, “Son, you’re not  alone, and you’re not sick.” And I told him about me.  8 Alan Shore:   Thank you, sir. 
Atty. Phillips:   So, while on the job, you told an eight-year-old boy that Santa is a cross-dresser? 
Gil Furnald:  Yes. 
 
Hallway of Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Tara Wilson:   Did the judge rule? 
Alan Shore:   No.  Miraculously, I persuaded him to let me give  a final statement, though I have no idea what to 
say.  The fact that he told a child he’s a cross-dr esser . . . I never should have put him on the stan d.  I’ve got to 
somehow make this a gay issue. 
Tara Wilson:   Personally, I think you’ll look very sexy in the elf outfit. 
Alan Shore:   I have no doubt.  Yet, I don’t want to lose.  I’v e grown attached to this Santa. 
Denny Crane:   Brad seems pretty happy.  Does he have reason? 
Alan Shore:   Denny, you said if I ever had another Hail Mary e mergency, you’d make the call. 
Denny Crane:   Really.  Are you sure? 
Alan Shore:   I need you to make the call. 
Lori Colson:   And what’s this about? 
Paul Lewiston:   It’s extremely delicate.  Though privilege typica lly extends to the whole firm, I have assured him 
that this would go no further than you and me. 
Lori Colson:   Okay. 
 
Paul Lewiston’s Office 
Paul Lewiston:   Meet Brian Stevens.  Brian, this is the attorney I . . . 
Brian Stevens and Lori Colson recognize each other.  
Paul Lewiston:   What’s going on? 
Lori Colson:   This is your client? 
Brian Stevens:   You’re an attorney? 
Lori Colson:   Um, yes. 
Brian Stevens:   You said you were a doctor! 
Paul Lewiston:   What the hell is going on? 
Lori Colson:   Uh, Paul, we have a conflict.  I represent the th erapist who is treating Mr. Stevens. 
Brian Stevens:   She’s the one who went to my ex-wife.  She’s the one who told Mary I planned on killing her.  
She pretended to be a doctor. 
 
Reverend Al Sharpton’s Office Reception Area 
Administrative Assistant:   He can see you for about five minutes.  After tha t, his day is completely . . . 
Alan Shore:   Five minutes is more than enough. 
Administrative Assistant:   You can go in. 
Alan Shore:   Thank you.  enters Reverend Al Sharpton’s office   Thank you so much for agreeing to see me.  
My name is Alan Shore, and . . . 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   holds up an index finger, as he reads papers on his  desk   Go. 
Alan Shore:   My name is Alan Shore.  Perhaps you’ll remember .  . . 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   holds up an index finger again   Everyone has a name, son.  I’m not interested in 
yours.  You have five minutes because you know him.   gestures at pictures on the wall behind Alan  
Alan Shore:   turns to look at a picture of Reverend Al Sharpton with Bill Clinton   Bill Clinton? 
Reverend Al Sharpton gestures again at the wall.  T his time, Alan sees a picture of Reverend Al 
Sharpton with Denny Crane  
Alan Shore:   Ah, well, you’ll remember at the behest of Mr. Cr ane, you made an appearance in one of my 
cases involving an African-American Little Orphan A nnie.  And you were extremely effective.  “Give us a black 
Spiderman.  Give us a black Superman who can leap t all buildings.” All the big icons.  Now I have anot her case 
featuring a gay man who’s being discriminated again st.  And this one involves the biggest icon of them  all—
Santa Claus.  My problem is the judge.  His tiny br ain has been calcified by intolerance.  However, he ’s 
certainly a slave to public opinion, as judges tend  to be.  But I can’t really move the public.  You c an.  Do you 
understand what I’m asking? 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   You want me to be your rabbit. 
Alan Shore:   I want you to be Reverend Al Sharpton in all his massive glory.  I want you to charge in there, say,  
“Give us a gay Santa Claus,” and button it with thr ee “God Almighties!”  9 Reverend Al Sharpton:   Stop.  I don’t do things big.  I’m subtle. 
Alan Shore:   Yes.  Three “God Almighties.” Look, I’ve written it all out for you.  Give that a look-see.  I’ve se en 
you move mountains, Reverend.  I need you to move t his one tiny-brained judge.  Please.  Pretty please .  
Holds his right hand over his heart, as he gestures  with the other hand at the picture of Reverend Al 
Sharpton with Denny Crane   Denny Crane. 
 
Hallway at Crane Poole & Schmidt  
Tara Wilson:   You got to Sharpton? 
Alan Shore:   I don’t know.  He said he’d think about it. 
Tara Wilson:   Does he just do this kind of thing now for lawyer s? 
Alan Shore:   He does it for Denny.  Let’s hope he does it for me. 
Brad Chase:   All set? You don’t want me to miss the ruling, do  you? Got the costume.  holds up a gym bag,  
bells jingling   
 
Paul Lewiston’s Office 
Paul Lewiston:   My God.  To impersonate a doctor. 
Lori Colson:   I thought a human life was at stake, and I didn’t  . . . 
Paul Lewiston:   It doesn’t matter, Lori.  You’re suddenly gonna s tart playing Solomon and break rules—sacred 
rules—whenever you see fit? I could be disbarred fo r this. 
Lori Colson:   You? Why? 
Paul Lewiston:   For not turning you in. 
Lori Colson:   sigh   I’m sorry, Paul.  I just . . . I’m sorry. 
Paul Lewiston:   I think it’s this Alan Shore character.  Ever sin ce he got here . . . 
Lori Colson:   This has nothing to do with Alan Shore.  I’m not influenced by him. 
Paul Lewiston:   You used to be influenced by me. 
Lori Colson:   Tell me what you want me to do.  I’ll resign if y ou . . . Just tell me what you want. 
Paul Lewiston:   First, I want you to apologize to Mr. Stevens. 
Lori Colson:   I did that. 
Paul Lewiston:   Well, you need to do it again.  And hope to God h e doesn’t sue us. 
Lori Colson:   How long have you known this man, Paul? 
Paul Lewiston:   Years.  Only through work.  But he doesn’t strike  me as being capable of violence, if that’s 
what you’re asking.  I’ll get him back in here.  An d on the chance that he could be violent, when you apologize, 
I will be in the room.  And for the sake of humorin g me, let’s stay completely away from Alan Shore. 
 
Courtroom 
Brad Chase:   What’s all the media doing here? 
Tara Wilson:   I have no idea. 
Bailiff:   All rise. 
Alan Shore:   Uh, oh. 
Gil Furnald:  What? 
Alan Shore:   We’re 10 minutes early.  looks at the door  
Judge Harry Hingham enters, noticing the media 
Bailiff:   Please be seated. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   Mr. Phillips, have you got anything to say before  I listen to him ? 
Atty. Phillips:   Mr. Furnald was fired mainly because my clients f eared he’d share his secret proclivity with a 
child, which, by his own testimony, is exactly what  he did. 
Alan Shore:   I object to that summation; it was entirely too s hort. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   What? 
Alan Shore:   I’m only worried for you, your Honor.  If you’re inclined to rule against us, he’s got to at least g ive 
you a good argument to hang your hat on, so it look s good to all this media.  Did you notice the media  here? 
Judge Harry Hingham:   Are you on drugs? You’ve got 30 seconds. 
Alan Shore:   That’s what I was afraid of.  Your Honor, the chi ld in question, whom my client shared his secret 
with—that child was in pain.  Being a good Santa Cl aus, Gil Furnald sought to relieve that pain. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   By telling him he was a ho-mo-sexual. 
Alan Shore:   Those three little words again.  checking the door again   He did not tell the boy he was gay.  He 
only said that he also liked to dress in female att ire.  And that, only after the child himself broach ed the subject.  10  Brad Chase:   Why does he keep looking back here? 
Tara Wilson:   I have no idea. 
Alan Shore:   He encouraged the boy not to feel that he was sic k.  He urged him not to feel alone.  It was a one-
time occurrence strictly intended to speak to the h eart of this one child.  There is no evidence that this man has 
committed any wrongdoing, nor is there any compelli ng evidence that cross-dressers are inherently lasc ivious, 
and the defendant knows that.  Cross-dressing is bu t a pretext that the defendant has hung its hat on to 
disguise the fact that Gil Furnald was terminated b ecause he is gay.  Last time I checked, it was not a firing 
offense for a civilian to be either ho, mo or sexua l. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   All right, already.  I’ve heard enough.  I’m goin g to rule on this. 
Alan Shore:   You can’t rule yet. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   Why not? 
Alan Shore:   I don’t know.  Well . . . What if, say, some big celebrity were to come charging through the door? 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   Sorry, I’m late, Judge.  I’ll make this quick. 
Alan Shore:   And subtle. 
Judge Harry Hingham:   Who the hell are you? 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   The image of Santa Claus has been crafted for hun dreds and hundreds and hundreds 
of years, but we’re supposed to be in a different d ay.  Give the world a black Santa Claus.  Let the p eople have 
an African-American come down the chimney bearing j oy and good will. 
Alan Shore:   soto voce to Al Sharpton   Gay, not black. 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   The prejudice against gay people must stop.  We a ll say we’re for gay rights.  We all 
say we accept homosexuality.  But give a gay man a hug, sit in his lap . . . 
Judge Harry Hingham:   Who is this man? 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   Let the bells of tolerance ring out this Christma s. 
Alan Shore, having written this speech, is mouthing  the words with Reverend Al Sharpton 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   Let people open their minds as they open their pr esents underneath the tree.  We 
need your mind, judge, today.  Let the gay man be m y brother, be your brother, be the schoolteacher, b e the 
construction worker! Give the world a gay Santa Cla us! God Almighty . . . Alan Shore is counting them on 
his fingers  . . . God Almighty, God Almighty.  Leave out the c ookies and the milk this Christmas Eve for a 
holly, jolly homosexual! God Almighty! 
Alan Shore:   And cut. 
The gallery breaks into applause and cheers. 
Reverend Al Sharpton:   I threw in one extra. 
Alan Shore:   Thank you. 
Brad Chase looks stricken as Tara Wilson pats his b ack, knowing Alan Shore has won the bet.  
 
Paul Lewiston’s Office 
Brian Stevens:   One of the reasons why I’ve been such an even-tem pered businessman is because I’ve been 
able to find an outlet.  A safe confidential outlet  with my therapist. 
Lori Colson:   But you must admit, threatening to kill your ex-w ife like this, it isn’t . . . 
Brian Stevens:   Miss Colson, I’ve been in therapy since I was 16.   I spent most of those sessions planning on 
how to kill my father.  They’re rants.  They help m e get the anger out.  sighs   This is gonna ruin me.  Mary acts 
on hysteria.  She’s gonna panic, and this is going to get out. 
Paul Lewiston:   Let us talk to Mary.  Perhaps we can settle her d own. 
Brian Stevens:   I’ll lose my job if this goes public. 
Paul Lewiston:   Let us try to unring this bell a little. 
Brian Stevens:   Okay. 
Paul Lewiston:   We need to fix this. 
Lori Colson:   How? 
Paul Lewiston:   We go to the wife, and we explain that you overre acted. 
Lori Colson:   She saw the tape for herself, Paul.  It’s not gon na . . . 
Paul Lewiston:   We further explain that people say things to thei r therapists that sometimes . . . 
Lori Colson:   We did that. 
Paul Lewiston:   Well, we’ll do it again.  Where does she live? 
Lori Colson:   Weston. 
Paul Lewiston:   Well, we’ll leave here at five. 
  11  Hallway at Crane Poole & Schmidt 
Elevator door opens, and we see Brad Chase in his e lf costume, Alan Shore, Tara Wilson and Gil 
Furnald behind him.  They get out, Elf Brad Chase i n the lead, bells jingling.  He meets Sally Heep fi rst. 
Brad Chase:   I don’t want to talk about it. 
Sally Heep:   You won! 
Alan Shore:   Judge Hingham, whore that he is, bowed to public sentiment, reinstated Gil as Santa. 
Gil Furnald:  And if you don’t mind, I would like to get back to work as soon as I can.  Could I steal you for just 
a minute, in private? 
Alan Shore:   Sure. 
 
Alan Shore’s Office 
Alan Shore and Gil Furnald enter 
Gil Furnald:  Listen.  Um, thank you.  Not just for getting my jo b back, but, well, it’s not often that you meet a 
lawyer with a soft spot for cross-dressers. 
Alan Shore:   Well, now you have, Mr. Furnald.  It wasn’t that so much.  It’s just from everything I’ve heard, you  
are a magnificent Santa Claus. 
Gil Furnald:  Thank you. 
Alan Shore:   You’re quite welcome. 
 
Paul Lewiston’s Car 
Lori Colson:   I guess you should take the lead with her since y ou know her. 
Paul Lewiston:   Yeah.  I also know her lawyer.  All I can say is I hope she hasn’t contacted him yet, because if 
he should get a hold of this . . .  interrupted by a loud siren  
Lori Colson:   What the . . .  radio chatter   Oh, dear God, no. 
Paul Lewiston parks in front of Mary Stevens’ home.   Lori Colson and Paul Lewiston get out of the car,  
and walk to the porch. 
 
Mary Stevens’ Home 
Buzzing with police officers and activity 
Lori Colson:   What happened? 
Detective Lowe:   Homicide.  The ex-husband just showed up and . . . 
Paul Lewiston:   Where is he?  showing his bar card   He’s represented. 
Detective Lowe:   I don’t think a lawyer’s gonna help him, counsel.  
Paul Lewiston:   I want to speak with him. 
Detective Lowe:   I don’t think that’s gonna happen either.  He’s o ver there. 
Detective Lowe  steps aside to reveal Brian Stevens in the corner o f the room, dead, with a bullet 
wound in the middle of his forehead. 
Paul Lewiston:   Wh—what happened? 
Detective Lowe:   He showed up.  She says he came here to kill her.   Says she fired in self-defense. 
Mary Stevens is in shock, sitting on the couch.  Lo ri Colson sits down next to her. 
Lori Colson:   Mary? 
Mary Stevens:   Am I gonna need a lawyer? 
Lori Colson:   What happened? 
Mary Stevens:   He showed up, said we needed to talk.  I didn’t t rust it, you know, after what I saw on that tape.  
I got the gun out of the drawer, told him to leave.   He said he just wanted to talk.  I told him, “Get  out.” And then 
he started walking toward me. 
Lori Colson:   And you shot him. 
Mary Stevens:   He was gonna kill me, right? You told me.  He was  gonna strangle me.  Promise me I had to do 
it.  Promise me! 