 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   1 Boston Legal  
An Eye For An Eye 
Season 1, Episode 5 
Written by Jeff Rake & David E. Kelley 
© 2004 David E. Kelley Productions. All Rights Rese rved. 
Broadcast: Oct 31, 2004 
Transcribed by SueB for Boston-Legal.org  
 
It’s Halloween in night court, which is filled with  people in various costumes awaiting appearances in  
front of the judge. 
Beat Cop: Suspects were first observed at approximately 10:30  pm across the street from the station house. 
Robin and Catwoman stood guard as Batman soaped an unoccupied police vehicle.  
Alan Shore (as Batman): S.U.V. Your Honor. An egregious gas gu zzler, and filthy, by the way. 
Night Court Judge: Continue, Officer.  
Beat Cop: Officer Brody and I approached. An altercation ensu ed.  
Tara Wilson (as Robin): We thought they were hooligans dressed in costume.  
Alan Shore: As the Village People perhaps. 
Tara Wilson: Hmm. 
Beat Cop: Suspects then attempted to evade apprehension by di scharging one or more eggs in our direction. 
Charges are vandalism, resisting arrest and panderi ng.  
Alan Shore: Pandering? Our only tricks were in conjunction with  our treating. And I do not look like a pimp. 
Beat Cop: You look like an idiot. The cat’s a known prostitut e, your honor.  
Hooker (as Catwoman): I object to that!   
Night Court Judge: All right. Masks off now. (the three comply). I kno w you. Alan Shore. 
Alan Shore: Good to see you, Judge. My colleague, Tara Wilson. 
Tara Wilson: Hello.  
Night Court Judge: Would you care to explain to me why two attorneys a re out cavorting with a prostitute? 
Tara Wilson: We needed somebody to be Catwoman. 
Alan Shore: Someone with a whip.  
Night Court Judge: Mr. Shore, while you are a gifted attorney, you bri ng embarrassment and shame to the legal 
community.  
Alan Shore. You’re very kind, sir.  
Night Court Judge: Case dismissed.  
 
Morning staff meeting in a conference room at Crane , Poole & Schmidt. 
Paul Lewiston: What’s this with the Markham settlement? 
Brad Chase: He refuses to sign. He keeps redlining us on langua ge. We think that he’s postponing until after the 
new year for tax reasons. I’ll keep pushing him as best I can. On a personal aside, I’d like to remind  everyone to 
vote. It’s our civic duty. Whatever our politics, a t the end of the day, we’re Americans. We bleed red , white and 
blue. 
Paul Lewiston: Morgan versus Rayburn.  
Alan Shore: Still in trial. Client survived his testimony barel y. Tara and I are pushing a settlement. And on a 
personal aside, I’m bored.  
Paul Lewiston: I beg your pardon. 
Alan Shore: You people keep assigning me these boring cases. At  my old firm, I got murderers. I had clients 
who would touch themselves in public restrooms. The se were people you could root for, not to mention r elate to.  
Paul Lewiston: Is there some other place you’d rather be, Mr. Shor e? 
Alan Shore: Yes, I want to be on cable. That’s where all the be st work is being done.  
A paralegal enters and whispers a message to Paul. 
Paul Lewiston: Who’s doing the Holcomb case? 
Tara Wilson: Uh, that’s Edwin Poole. 
Paul Lewiston (to Lori Colson): Aren’t you - 
Lori Colson: I just handled the decert motion. I didn’t prep the  trial.  
Paul Lewiston: Surely, Edwin assigned it to somebody.  
Lori Colson: Well, um - actually…. (she glances at a vacant-look ing Denny Crane).  
Paul Lewiston: Denny? Are you handling the Holcomb Pharmaceuticals  trial? 
Denny Crane: I am.  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   2 Paul Lewiston: Are you prepared to try this case? 
Denny Crane: I will be. 
Paul Lewiston: You will be? Are you aware the trial begins tomorro w? 
 
After the meeting, in Paul’s office. 
Paul Lewiston: We have a problem, Lori. You at least need to backs top Denny here. I don’t - 
Lori Colson: I can’t. I’m in trial myself today. 
Paul Lewiston: In trial on what? 
Lori Colson: I, uh, was assigned a case a couple of days ago whi ch I sort of took. 
Paul Lewiston: What kind of case? 
Lori Colson: Uh, just a … homicide. 
Paul Lewiston: What? Why are you suddenly taking court appointment s? 
Lori Colson: I just need kind of a change, that’s all. 
Paul Lewiston: Now everyone here is dissatisfied? What is this? 
Lori Colson: The case I did last week, it kind of awakened me a little. I’m feeling the need to connect with 
people. 
Paul Lewiston: Criminal people? 
Lori Colson: Please don’t trivialize this. 
Paul Lewiston: Criminal defense is a far cry from criminal prosecu tion, Lori. You won’t like it. 
Lori Colson: How can you possibly know that before I even - 
Paul Lewiston: I know you. 
 
Tara Wilson is examining a document in an office, w hen Alan Shore enters.  
Alan Shore: So….shall we? 
Tara Wilson: We shall. Do you have Morgan’s address? 
Alan Shore: I do. But what I meant is, shall we continue where we left off last night? 
Tara Wilson: In front of my building, with you peeing in the pla nter.  
Alan Shore: I was about to burst. You should’ve let me come up.   
Tara Wilson: That plant needed watering. 
Alan Shore: You should’ve let me come up, Tara.  
Tara Wilson: It was 4:00 am. If I let you up, next thing we know  we’re in the liquor cabinet. Two minutes after 
that, passed out. Robin sprawled across Batman. Wha t would they say at the Hall of Justice? 
Alan Shore: Was that what you were afraid of? The sprawling? 
Tara Wilson: I invited you out to get your mind off Sally.  
Alan Shore: You’ve succeeded. It’s back to an old, familiar, wa nton place.  
Tara Wilson: Alan, we agreed that you and I couldn’t work. 
Alan Shore: What was the reason again? I’ve forgotten. 
Tara Wilson: It would be trouble. One night out, we lose all con trol and end up behind bars.  
Alan Shore: Which was utterly intoxicating, was it not? Losing control together. What about it, Tara? After all th is 
time, maybe we should undress -  
Tara Wilson: We’re late. 
As they walk out of the office and down the hall, S ally watches them go.  
 
Denny Crane is staring at a stack of thick binders on his desk and lifting them one at a time. 
Denny Crane: Thick file. 
Paul Lewiston: Of course it’s a thick file. It’s a class action in volving thousands of plaintiffs, and it’s complicat ed, 
Denny.  
Denny Crane: Thick file. 
Paul Lewiston: Look, all we can do is throw ourselves at the mercy  of the judge. If you and I both go to see him 
and explain Edwin’s situation, maybe he’ll give us some time. 
Denny Crane: Thick file. 
 
 
Alan Shore and Tara Wilson are visiting client Bill  Morgan at his apartment. 
Bill Morgan: $70,000.  
Alan Shore: It’s their opening offer. 
Bill Morgan (shaking his head): Hmm.  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   3 Alan Shore: You seem like a very nice man, Mr. Morgan. You also  seem like a hypochondriac. 
Bill Morgan: These headaches are real. 
Alan Shore: I have no doubt. You’ve also complained on several occasions that you were suffering from tanapox 
virus.  
Bill Morgan: Because I noticed the characeristic papular lesions . Very tender. Approximately two centimeters in 
diameter.  
Alan Shore: You realize the tanapox virus is endemic to equator ial Africa? 
Bill Morgan: Yes. 
Alan Shore: Have you enjoyed your many visits to equatorial Afr ica? 
Bill Morgan: I’ve never been there.  
Alan Shore: Ah. Then perhaps you can see the outline of our pro blem, Mr. Morgan. 
Bill Morgan: Look. It’s not my fault. I go to the library and I read books. I try to understand how I might get bet ter. 
But sometimes the books, they scare me even more ‘c ause they describe diseases I didn’t even know I ha d. 
Maybe I am a hypochondriac. What do you take for th at? 
 
Lori Colson and Sally Heep are interviewing client Jason Binder in a conference room. 
Jason Binder: Miss Colson, I have never been in a fight before. 
Lori Colson: Okay. We need to be able to call a witness or two w ho can speak to your nonviolent character. 
Jason Binder: I told you - my mother. 
Lori Colson: Mothers tend to come off as biased. 
Sally Heep: There’s gotta be somebody else. Friends, coworkers - There’s gotta be somebody. 
Jason Binder: Well, I live at home. I work at home. I hardly ever  go out. My mother’s the only one that - But I 
gotta warn you. She doesn’t make the best impressio n. 
Lori Colson: What do you mean?  
Jason Binder: Well, she’s got a glass eye, and it doesn’t fit so good. And when she gets upset - If you put her on 
the stand, don’t get her upset.  
 
In Judge Katherine Taylor’s courtroom, witness Kevi n Quinlan is on the stand. 
Kevin Quinlan: I went up to the bar to get a few drinks. And when I turned around, that’s when I saw Jared and 
him exchanging words. And I could tell it wasn’t fr iendly. 
A.D.A. George Martin: By “him”? 
Kevin Quinlan: The defendant. So I started heading back, and the p lace was really packed, so I was kind of 
blocked. And that’s when I saw Jared push him. And then Jared took a swing, and that was it. 
A.D.A. George Martin: What was it? Tell us what you saw.  
Kevin Quinlan: The defendant - he just threw a punch right to Jare d’s throat, and Jared just collapsed to the 
ground. And when I got there, he was barely breathi ng, and he was making, like, a sucking noise. And t hen he 
just stopped breathing, and I tried to do mouth-to- mouth. And so did another guy who said he knew C.P. R., but 
he - he just died right there on the floor.  
A.D.A. George Martin: Okay. Now, Mr. Quinlan, this is important. Describe  the punch as best you can.  
Kevin Quinlan: It was a - a short, direct punch. And I could - I c ould tell by the way he was holding his hand and 
how he threw the punch that he knew martial arts. I t was a kill punch.  
Lori Colson: Objection! 
Judge Katherine Taylor: Sustained. 
A.D.A. George Martin: Why, in your lay opinion, sir, did you regard it as  a kill punch? 
Lori Colson: Objection. 
Judge Katherine Taylor: Overruled. He can answer.  
Kevin Quinlan: By hitting the throat, you can make it collapse, an d then the person suffocates which is exactly 
what happened. 
A.D.A. George Martin: Okay.  
Lori Colson: You didn’t actually see the altercation begin. You turned around, and they were having words? 
Kevin Quinlan: That’s right.  
Lori Colson: You couldn’t hear what was said? 
Kevin Quinlan: No. 
Lori Colson: Mr. Quinlan, when the police arrived and questioned  you, did you tell them that you recognized my 
client’s punch as a form of martial arts? 
Kevin Quinlan: No. I was probab - 
Lori Colson: Did you demonstrated to them the fist you just made  for the jury?  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   4 Kevin Quinlan: I was too shook up. 
Lori Colson: In fact, you made no mention of martial arts until after it was published in the newspapers.  
Kevin Quinlan: And when I read it, it clicked. It all made perfect  sense because that’s what I saw.  
Lori Colson: Hmm. You just forgot to mention it when the police specifically asked you what you saw? How 
many beers had you had that night, sir? 
Kevin Quinlan: Three.  
Lori Colson: How many beers had Jared Grant had? 
Kevin Quinlan: Three. 
Lori Colson: So you admittedly couldn’t hear the exchange, you a dmittedly didn’t see the altercation begin, and 
you’d been drinking? 
 
Paul Lewiston and Denny Crane are paying a visit to  Judge Brian Franzetti in his chambers. 
Paul Lewiston: Certainly no one could anticipate Edwin Poole’s ill ness.  
Judge Brian Franzetti: This unanticipated illness occurred weeks ago. You come to me the day before the trial? 
Paul Lewiston: The simple truth is this one fell through the crack s. 
Judge Brian Franzetti: The plaintiff has witnesses from out of town.  
Paul Lewiston: We’d be willing to assume those costs. 
Judge Brian Franzetti: Oh, gee! What a swell bunch of guys! 
Paul Lewiston: Your Honor - 
Judge Brian Franzetti: Oh, no, no, no, no - I’m sick of this. Your firm ha s employed a strategy of system heel-
dragging. It is immoral.  
Paul Lewiston: Edwin Poole is the only one - 
Judge Brian Franzetti: Whose fault is that? You people should be sued for malpractice.  
Denny Crane: Brian, you and I have a relationship. I think of yo u as a friend.  
Judge Brian Franzetti: Yes, well, that friendship has gotta take a backsea t to principle. I’m sorry.  
Denny Crane: Well, you know, Brina, given our relationship, I fe el entitled to be honest, the way friends are 
during difficult times. Can I be honest with you, B rian? 
Judge Brian Franzetti: Please.  
Paul Lewiston: Denny. 
Denny Crane: You’re a bastard, and a greedy one at that. This is  a class action. You get credit for all the 
consolidated cases in one fell swoop. You’re lookin g to make presiding judge. You need that credit by calendar 
year’s end. That’s why you’re desperate to move thi s thing forward - to pad your docket. This is about  ambition, 
not morality, you greedy, sniveling, little wop.  
Judge Brian Franzetti: Motion for continuance denied. 
Denny Crane: You know what I’m gonna do, Brian? Just to show you  there are no hard feelings? I’m gonna 
sleep with your wife.  
 
In Paul Lewiston’s office, he, Denny Crane, and Bra d Chase are meeting with the Holcomb clients. 
Paul Lewiston: It is our recommendation that you discharge us as c ounsel. Ask the judge for time to find new 
attorneys. The only alternative is proceeding tomor row, which I don’t think we want to do. 
Derek Ross:  Edwin Poole never even gave us this trial date. He  told us it was continued indefinitely.  
Paul Lewiston: Which is why we’re suggesting that you discharge us . He has got to give you time to find new 
counsel.  
 
 
 
Lori Colson and Sally Heep are walking through the halls at Crane, Poole & Schmidt. 
Lori Colson: You have to handle this, Sally. 
Sally Heep: Me?   
Lori Colson: Look, I have this thing about glass eyes. I once ha d a teacher with a glass eye, and sometimes 
when he’d get mad, he’d take it out and whack it on  his desk. Gave me nightmares. 
Tara Wilson approaches them from the opposite direc tion.  
Tara Wilson: Hi there.  
Lori Colson: Hey. (then to Sally Heep) What was that? 
Sally Heep: Nothing. Someone just seems a little overeager to r ekindle the flame with Alan Shore. 
 
Alan Shore and Tara Wilson are meeting with opposin g counsel.  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   5 Attorney Braxton Mason: The offer was firm at 70.  
Alan Shore: Yes. We thought if you’d unfirm it to one and a qua rter, we could be done. Your client wouldn’t have 
to testify tomorrow which, of course, would free hi m up to misdiagnose others.  
Attorney Braxton Mason: You don’t seem to get it, Mr. Shore. We offered 70 as nuisance change.  
Alan Shore: Yes. We just feel Mr. Morgan is a much bigger nuisa nce than you give him credit for. And I’m an 
enormous nuisance. We should get something for that .  
 
Lori Colson and Sally Heep approach the door of Hel en Binder’s apartment. 
Sally Heep: I feel nauseous. 
Lori Colson: You’ll be fine. They reach the door. Knock on it.  
Sally Heep: You knock on it.  
Lori Colson: Sally! 
Sally Heep: If I’m doing the talking, the least you can do is -  
The door opens suddenly, and both women scream in s urprise.  
Helen Binder: You his lawyers? 
Sally Heep: Hi. 
Helen Binder: Hi. 
Sally Heep: I’m Sally Heep. This is - 
Lori Colson (looking down): Lori Colson. Hello. 
Sally Heep: Uh, we just wanted to ask you a few questions, Mrs.  Binder, if we could. 
Helen Binder: Oh, come on in.  
 
The three women are now seated in Mrs. Binder’s apa rtment.  
Helen Binder: He’s a wonderful boy with a gentle heart. 
Sally Heep: Yes. Our problem is, you seem to be the only person  to truly know him. 
Helen Binder (sighs): He thinks I’ll make a bad witness on accou nt of the eye. It’s glass, you see? Look close. 
Sally Heep: Yes. 
Helen Binder (looking toward Lori): Hmm? 
Lori Colson: Yeah.  
Sally Heep: The thing is the prosecution is obviously claiming that Jason’s heart is not gentle. 
Helen Binder: Has he ever been in trouble? Has he ever been arres ted? Has he ever caused problems for 
anybody? No. He is a nice young man, and it’s the w ay I raised him.  
Sally Heep: That’s exactly what we’ll need you to say. I’m also  maybe gonna take you shopping, get your hair 
done. The more presentable, the - 
Helen Binder: He deserved to die - Jared Grant.  
Sally Heep: Uh, why do you say that? 
Helen Binder: He beat up my Jason. 
Sally Heep: Well, he didn’t exactly beat him up. There was an a ltercation. 
Helen Binder: He beat him up! The man is evil, and he deserved to  die! 
Sally Heep: Let’s calm down.  
Helen Binder: He deserved it, I tell you! 
Helen’s glass eye bounces onto the coffee table and  rolls across and onto the floor. 
 
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom, defendant Dr. St even Rayburn is on the witness stand. 
Attorney Braxton Mason: Dr. Rayburn, over these six months that Mr. Morgan was in your care, how many visits 
did he make to your practice? 
Dr. Steven Rayburn: Thirty-eight. 
Attorney Braxton Mason: Is that a lot? 
Dr. Steven Rayburn: Four times as many as any other patient. We joked h e was the office mascot. You name 
the condition, Mr. Morgan was convinced he had it. Cold, flu, bronchitis, uh, shingles, adult-onset di abetes.  
Bill Morgan (to Tara Wilson): I never complained of adult-onset  diabetes. That’s characterized by excessive 
thirst. Does it seem to you like I’ve been drinking  a lot today? 
Tara Wilson: I’m sure you’re fine, Bill.  
Attorney Braxton Mason: Mr. Morgan contends your neglect drove him to this state. 
Dr. Steven Rayburn: The truth is I bent over backwards to accommodate h im. He always needed to be seen 
immediately. And busy as my practice is, I always m ade the time. 
Alan Shore: I applaud you, sir, for your tireless commitment to  my client. What a guy. (he begins to clap)  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   6 Attorney Braxton Mason: Objection.  
Judge Paul Resnick: Sustained. 
Alan Shore: Oh. So, these 38 visits - on the house?  
Dr. Steven Rayburn: I’m sorry? 
Alan Shore: They were free visits? 
Dr. Steven Rayburn: No.  
Alan Shore: Oh. So you charged him. That makes sense. So, with all his complaining, his incapacitation, that 
pinched look on his face, there’s nothing wrong wit h him? 
Dr. Steven Rayburn: Nothing clinically, no. It’s in his head.  
Alan Shore: Traditional home for the migraine, is it not? 
Dr. Steven Rayburn: It’s psychosomatic. He’s a classic hypochondriac. 
Alan Shore: I see. Well, there’s a diagnosis. Tell me, what tre atment did you prescribe for my client’s classic 
hypochondria? 
Dr. Steven Rayburn: I’m a general practictioner, not a psychiatrist. 
Alan Shore: So you referred him out to whom? 
Dr. Steven Rayburn: No one in particular. I did tell him he needed help . I believe I even gave him a list of 
practitioners.  
Alan Shore: Ah. So he kept coming to you. You kept taking his m oney. You did not treat him. And you referred 
him to … no one in particular.  
Dr. Steven Rayburn: I’m a G.P. I told him to seek mental treatment. I a dvised it. I can’t force it.  
Alan Shore: Once again, he kept coming, you kept taking the mon ey, and you referred him to … no one in 
particular. 
 
In Judge Brian Franzetti’s courtroom, the Holcomb c lients have requested a delay to find new counsel. 
Judge Brian Franzetti: So you now want to fire your lawyers? 
Derek Ross: Yes, Your Honor. We had no idea trial was about to start. That’s how incompetent these people 
are. 
Judge Brian Franzetti: Oh, and I suppose you had no idea that your company  was bilking senior citizens? 
Derek Ross: Certainly Your Honor intends to keep an open mind w ith regard to the - 
Judge Brian Franzetti: Here’s the deal. I give you one day to find new cou nsel. Twenty-four hours. After that, I’m 
fining you $250,000 a day for any further delay. 
 
The Holcomb clients and the Crane, Poole & Schmidt legal team are leaving the courtroom. 
Derek Ross: It almost seemed personal. Have you done anything t o upset this guy? 
Denny Crane: Not that I can think of. 
Adam Herbett: Well, look, aside from preparation concerns, we’ve got a bigger problem. This judge, he’s biased. 
Paul Lewiston: This is what I propose we do. File an interlocutory  appeal asking- 
Derek Ross: At 250,000 a day. 
Paul Lewiston: While we’re filing that appeal, we’ll go forward. S hould we win, we can suspend the trial. Should 
we lose, we won’t incur the fine. 
Derek Ross: But are you people ready to try this case? 
Denny Crane: I can try it. Denny Crane.  
Paul Lewiston: There were some settlement discussions that broke d own. If Denny can open big, that might 
bring them back to the table which may be the best way to go at this point. 
 
 
In Katherine Taylor’s courtroom, witness Gregory St one is on the stand . 
Gregory Stone: It was four years ago, at a park in Brighton.  
A.D.A. George Martin: You met the defendant? 
Gregory Stone: Well, I didn’t exactly meet him.  
A.D.A. George Martin: Well, what then? 
Gregory Stone: I beat the crap out of him. (to Judge Taylor) E-exc use me. I was a different person then.  
A.D.A. George Martin: Okay, Mr. Stone. We need to be very specific about what happened back then.  
Gregory Stone: Well, he tried to get into a game of pickup hoops. Me and another guy in the game, we started 
dissing him a little.  He said something back, and we beat him up pretty good. I’m not proud of it.  
A.D.A. George Martin: And you’re sure it was Jason Binder? 
Gregory Stone: Yeah. When I saw his picture on the news, I remembe red his face. It was definitely him.  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   7 A.D.A. George Martin: And what about the other guy who beat him up? 
Gregory Stone: Jared Grant, the guy he killed. 
 
Lori Colson and Sally Heep are meeting privately wi th Jason Binder. 
Lori Colson: You lied to me. Not only were you in a fight before  - 
Jason Binder: It doesn’t prove anything.  
Lori Colson: Now they have a motive, Jason. The victim beats you  up four years ago. You take up tae kwon do. 
You just so happen to encounter him, at which point  you kill him? 
Jason Binder: It wasn’t like that. 
Lori Colson: That’s why your mom said he deserved to die, becaus e - 
Jason Binder: It wasn’t like that! 
Lori Colson: What am I supposed to argue now? 
Sally Heep: Let’s have it, Jason. Did you go to that bar to get  revenge? 
Jason Binder: I went there to stand up to him. You have no idea h ow haunted I was by - I didn’t even put up my 
hands four years ago. It wasn’t getting beat up tha t stuck with me. It was that I didn’t even - I just  let myself get 
beat up.  
Lori Colson: So you took up martial arts.  
Jason Binder: And I went there to stand up to him. I didn’t plan a fight. I certainly didn’t go there to kill him. T hen 
when he swung at me, I just - I swung back. I never  meant to kill him. 
 
Denny Crane’s office, which is a flurry of activity  with assistants scurrying and flip charts surround ing 
his desk.  
Denny Crane: Who are we overbilling? Medicare or senior citizens ? 
Julia: Both, but Medicare isn’t suing us. 
Denny Crane: “Us”? Meaning the drug company? 
Julia: Correct. 
Denny Crane: But if the hospitals are doing the overcharging, wh y are the seniors suing the drug company? 
Brad Chase: Denny, we’ve been over this before. The drug compan y, our client, has the sweetheart deals with 
the hospitals. We give them rebates, so they disgui se the real cost of the drugs. They then bill Medic are for the 
higher, allegedly inflated costs.  
Denny Crane: Really? What’s our defense to that? 
 
Alan Shore, Tara Wilson and Bill Morgan are in a me eting with Attorney Braxton Mason. 
Alan Shore: Seventy-five. You’ve upped your offer by $5,000. 
Attorney Braxton Mason: We feel it’s generous, particularly when your clien t’s injuries aren’t real.  
Bill Morgan: They’re real. 
Alan Shore: All right, Bill. 
Attorney Braxton Mason: You know, Mr. Morgan. I don’t typically counsel opp osing parties, but I might advise a 
legal malpractice claim against the attorney who fi lled your head with million-dollar windfalls.  
Alan Shore: You seem to have a little something wedged in betwe en numbers four and five. Hmm. Guess it’s 
just part of your mouth. One last proposal, and it’ s entirely possible I’m kidding, by the way, depend ing upon 
your reaction. 300,000, sealed. We kick back 50 to you under the table.  
Attorney Braxton Mason: Mr. Shore, I guarantee you I am not that kind of at torney.  
Alan Shore: Really? Gosh, I am.  
Attorney Braxton Mason: I should report you directly to the bar, if not the  district attorney.  
Alan Shore: Well, if that’s how you feel, then I was kidding. 
Attorney Braxton Mason: I’m going to the judge now.  
Alan Shore: Excellent. New trial. That’ll certainly cost your c lient much more than 75,000. 
Attorney Braxton Mason: Your offer is rejected. 
Tara Wilson: Suppose he does go to the judge. 
Alan Shore: Oh, please. He doesn’t want a mistrial. He thinks h e’s won. Plus, he can’t prove I wasn’t kidding. I’m  
known to be funny. 
 
In Judge Katherine Taylor’s courtroom, Helen Binder  is on the witness stand. 
Helen Binder: This is a child who wouldn’t slap a mosquito. He wo uld shoo it away. He couldn’t bring himself to 
harm a fly or any animal, certainly not a human bei ng. 
A.D.A. George Martin: Four years harboring a grudge doesn’t suggest a rag e to you?  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   8 Helen Binder: He was bullied by many people, Mr. Martin, not just  Jared Grant. 
A.D.A. George Martin: But he killed Jared Grant. 
Helen Binder: He got into a fight which had a tragic ending. He n ever intended to kill, nor could he. 
A.D.A. George Martin: He learned a lethal martial artz maneuver that - 
Helen Binder : He learned to defend himself. Look at the size of h im, for God’s sake. What was he to do? Fend 
people off with a sharp wit?  
A.D.A. George Martin: Mrs. Binder, you love your son very much, don’t you ? 
Helen Binder: Of course I do. 
A.D.A. George Martin: In fact, he’s your only child. He’s all you have, i sn’t he? 
Helen Binder: Yes. 
A.D.A. George Martin: He lives with you - or did - before his arrest? 
Helen Binder: There’s something wrong with that? 
A.D.A. George Martin: I bet you would do or say anything to keep him from  going to prison. 
Helen Binder: I’m up here telling the truth.  
A.D.A. George Martin: No. You’re telling lies to spare a loved one a life  sentence.  
Helen Binder: No. You’re the one that’s telling lies! You’re the liar here! 
A.D.A. George Martin: Your son’s a killer! 
Helen Binder: No, he is not! 
A.D.A. George Martin: Your son is a killer! 
Helen Binder: No, he is not! 
Helen’s glass eye clatters to the ground and rolls all the way across the courtroom floor. 
 
Denny Crane and the team continue to prepare for th e Holcomb case in his office.  
Denny Crane: What does a rubber glove have to do with it? 
Brad Chase: Denny, the alleged fraud goes beyond just prescript ion drugs. It goes to medical supplies as well.  
Denny Crane: I see a rubber glove, I’m heading in the other dire ction, I’ll tell you that.  
Paul Lewiston: Denny, do you understand what this case is about? 
Denny Crane: I do, Paul.  
Paul Lewiston: Can you succinctly tell us? 
Denny Crane: The plaintiff thinks he’s getting bilked for drugs and supplies. His evidence is we charge hospitals 
and clinics less for those very drugs and supplies.  Our argument is, the mere offering of a discount t o a 
consumer does not constitute the overbilling to ano ther. In fact, since hospitals and clinics with E.R .’s regularly 
treat those who cannot pay, an argument could be ma de that we’re extending these discounts to those mo st in 
need. We’re saving lives, damn it. And I will not a pologize for my client’s billing practices. I salut e them. I invite 
you  to salute them.  
Brad Chase: Okay. Let’s turn to the vertical integration betwee n our clients and the hospitals.  
Denny Crane: What the hell is that? 
 
Tara Wilson is fixing tea in the break room at Cran e, Poole & Schmidt when Lori Colson enters. 
Lori Colson: Earl Grey, huh? 
Tara Wilson: Hmm. 
Lori Colson: That would keep me up till Thursday. 
Tara Wilson: Hopefully a few hours at least.  
Lori Colson: You and Alan pulling a late one? 
Tara Wilson: Might be. We’re closing tomorrow.  
Lori Colson: What are you doing tonight? 
Tara Wilson: Preparing. 
Lori Colson: Right. You know, the whole Sally and Alan thing, sh e’s still pretty raw.  
Tara Wilson: Meaning? 
Lori Colson: Oh, just that if you had any intentions of - 
Alan Shore (who has entered the room unnoticed): Eating her? R aw would certainly be problematic. All that 
kicking and screaming. Rare often works for me. Sea red. I’m sorry. Did you mean something else? 
Lori Colson: I’m just looking out for a friend. 
Alan Shore: I see. Well, given that it was Sally’s decision to end our relationship, perhaps you’d consider lookin g 
out for me.  
Lori Colson: You seem all right.  
Alan Shore: Just to clarify, if Tara did have any intention of whatever euphemism you were in search of, it would,   
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   9 in fact, be none of your business. To put your mind  at rest, Tara appears not to have intentions. I do . In fact, just 
yesterday I was suggesting to her that we engage in  a sexual act in her office, but her impenetrable s ense of 
decorum unfortunately prevented us from engaging.  
Lori leaves the room. 
Tara Wilson: That was unnecessary.  
 
In Judge Brian Franzetti’s courtroom, Attorney Gold berg is giving his opening statement. 
Attorney Goldberg: It’s a scam. They charge the hospital “X” amount of  dollars for the drug. The hospital then 
bills Medicare a portion of which the senior citize ns are paying. The evidence will show that the defe ndant, 
Holcomb Pharmaceutical, systematically defrauded an d bilked senior citizens out of billions and billio ns of 
dollars. The elderly are discriminated against ever y single day in this country. They get their driver ’s licenses 
yanked. They are targeted by abusive telemarketers.  The prejudice is pervasive. But you know what? The y still 
do get one thing - their day in court.  
Paul Lewiston (to Denny Crane): Need I point out that it’s your t urn to talk. 
Denny Crane: Hate old people. Always have. They’re babies. Hell,  there’s a reason half of them are in diapers.  
The elderly make up a large percentage of the wealt h in this country. They run most of the Fortune  500 
companies. They’re running the war, for God’s sakes . And most of them are viable, healthy people. What  do 
they do? Retire at age 65 and start draining our re sources. We got enormous poverty in this country. W e can’t 
educate our kids, partly because these strong-bodie d, strong-minded senior citizen farts are living of f of Social 
Security. Why shouldn’t we overcharge ‘em?  
Judge Brian Franzetti: Mr. Crane, I’m not following your argument here.  
Denny Crane: That’s ‘cause you’re a moron. Judges … old people -  they all gotta go.  
Judge Brian Franzetti: Mr. Crane! 
Denny Crane: Tell you what. Slap my client with a million-dollar  verdict. We’ll pass on the cost to the consumer. 
The plaintiffs will think they’ve won, and we won’t  be out a dime.  
Judge Brian Franzetti: Members of the jury, regretfully I must declare thi s proceeding a mistrial. 
Denny Crane: Aw, gee, I’m sorry to hear that. That’ll cause a bi g delay, won’t it? Next thing you know, he’ll 
recuse himself because I called him a bad word.  
Judge Brian Franzetti: You are in contempt! Bailiff, take Mr. Crane into c ustody. 
Denny Crane: Put me in a cell with Martha, will ya? I gotta have  sex with that woman. 
 
In Judge Katherine Taylor’s courtroom, the attorney s are making closing arguments.  
A.D.A. George Martin: Four years of premeditation. He trained in deadly f orce. Then he sought out Jared Grant, 
provoked a fight and inflicted a deadly blow to his  trachea.  
Lori Colson: Maybe he even did start the fight. We can’t know th at. There’s no proof of that. But even if we’re to 
assume it, we simply cannot make the leap to intent  to kill.  
A.D.A. George Martin: Why else would he go there? Why else would he punch  him in the throat? 
Lori Colson: Why would he do it in front of a room full of peopl e? Why not just run him down with a car, if his 
intent was to kill? Jason Binder went there, as he told you, to stand up for himself. Nothing more. 
In Judge Paul Resnick’s courtroom, the attorneys ar e making closing arguments. 
Attorney Braxton Mason: It’s bad enough that patients are running to the co urts suing their doctors for all their 
ills. Now we have one suing for his imagined ills. This case represents the height in frivolous litiga tion. What’s 
next? Seeking damages for a bad dream? I hope not. 
Alan Shore: “Frivolous.” Is that what he said? “Frivolous”? Ast onishing. This man, who suffers, day in and day 
out, from migraines so excruciating he cannot work,  can’t endure 10 minutes at his computer - a traine d 
software engineer. And here he is subjecting himsel f to depositions, to examinations, the laborious, m ind-
numbing blather of attorneys. All for what? Frivoli ty? For six months Bill Morgan reached out to his d octor, week 
after week, each time invoiced for thousands and th ousands of dollars in sum. And then each time dismi ssed, 
patted on the head and sent on his way. Had Mr. Mor gan actually received the right medical care, or ev en been 
directed to a doctor who could specifically give hi m that care, psychiatric or otherwise, his current state would 
most likely have been alleviated. But the defendant  couldn’t be bothered to care. As Dr. Rayburn told you 
himself, he treated Bill Morgan like a mascot. Oppo sing counsel regards him as a nuisance. He’s a huma n 
being. He’s a human being. We teach our children th at everyone is entitled to respect and dignity. How  pathetic 
it is when adults can’t abide such a basic lesson i n humanity. How unconscionable.  
 
In Judge Katherine Taylor’s courtroom, the jury has  returned with the verdict.  
Judge Katherine Taylor: The defendant will please rise. Madam Foreperson, t he jury has reached a unanimous  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   10  verdict? 
Foreperson: We have, Your Honor. 
Judge Katherine Taylor: What say you? 
Foreperson: In the case of the Commonwealth versus Jason Binder, on the charge of murder in the first degree, 
we find the defendant, Jason Binder, not guilty. On  the charge of murder in the second degree, we find  the 
defendant, Jason Binder, not guilty.  
Judge Katherine Taylor: The jury is dismissed with our thanks. The defendan t is free to go. We are adjourned.  
Jason Binder (to Lori Colson): Thank you so much. (turning to Sa lly Heep) Thank you.  
While Jason is hugging his mother, Lori observes hi m directing a long, menacing stare toward Gregory 
Stone.  
 
The scene segues to Lori sitting in her office, sta ring into space. Paul Lewiston enters. 
Paul Lewiston: I’m told congratulations are in order.  
Lori Colson: You, too. Denny bought you some time, I hear.  
Paul Lewiston: My father was a criminal defense attorney. He went into it to champion civil rights, to defend the 
oppressed, to … connect with people. But all I ever  saw at the supper table was a man struggling to de al with 
the idea that he helped put murderers back on the s treet.  
 
Tara Wilson is watching Alan Shore from his office door. 
Tara Wilson: Heading home? 
Alan Shore: Jail. Incarcerated friend. 
Tara Wilson: You run with a dangerous crowd. 
Alan Shore: I try. 
Tara Wilson: As do I. 
Alan Shore: I don’t think that’s quite true. 
Tara Wilson: You don’t know me, Alan Shore, not as well as you t hink. 
Alan Shore: No? 
Tara Wilson: No. Certainly not as well as I know you. 
Alan Shore: How well is that? 
Tara Wilson: I know that there are three Alan Shores. The good, the bad and the naughty. The good Alan, the 
man that I saw today in court, is honorable and dec ent. But you can’t bear the burden of being that ma n. Thus 
the bad Alan, who lays to waste everything in his l ife that seems right. I do have intentions. My inte ntions are to 
get beyond the bad which I’ve tried to do again and  again by appealing to the good. But it appears to me that 
perhaps I should be appealing to the naughty.  
Alan Shore: I’m not certain the Tara Wilson I know is up to the  task.  
Tara Wilson: Again, you don’t know me, Alan. (she picks up a fol der and hands it to him) File for you.  
Alan opens the folder and finds a pair of lace pant ies.  
 
Denny Crane is sitting in a jail cell, serving his contempt of court sentence. The gate lock buzzes of f-
screen, and a guard enters the hallway followed by Alan Shore. The guard lets Alan into Denny’s cell. 
Alan Shore: Your bail was set at six million dollars. 
Denny Crane: Funny. 
Alan Shore: I brought you a hamburger (he hands a bag to Denny) . The guards here are extremely hospitable. I 
just got a jury verdict for $320,000. Lori got a no t guilty in her murder case. (he  pulls two glasses  out of his 
briefcase) You cleverly orchestrated a mistrial. (h e pulls out a bottle of Scotch and begins to pour).  And a 
woman I’m infatuated with delivered to me her panti es in a manila folder. I think we’re obliged to hav e a drink. 
(he picks up the glasses and hands one to Denny) Ch eers. (he takes a drink). 
Denny Crane (not drinking): I wasn’t clever. I forgot.  
Alan Shore: I beg your pardon? 
Denny Crane: I stood up, armed with all of the facts of our clie nt’s billing practices, and … I went blank in front  of 
the jury. I couldn’t remember a damn thing.  
Alan Shore: Well, that can happen sometimes. 
Denny Crane: Beh. You once said you suspected I had Alzheimer’s.  How does a person know? 
Alan Shore: Well, there’s no exact diagnostic - they can do cer tain tests. Denny, you may have gone up on an 
opening, but to recover like that and go for the mi strial, that’s evidence of a man thinking quickly o n his feet.  
Denny Crane: I want to take the test.  
They drink, and the scene fades as Alan reaches ove r and rubs Denny on the back.   
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   11   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   12   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   13   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 