 1 Boston Legal 
Let Sales Ring 
Season 1, Episode 16 
Written by David E. Kelley 
© 2005 David E. Kelley Productions. All Rights Rese rved. 
Broadcast: March 13, 2005 
Transcribed by Imamess of JSMP for JSMP and Boston- Legal.org 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Denny Crane and Milton  Bombay are walking arm-in-arm to 
Denny's office. 
Denny Crane: My friend, I can't tell you how good it is to see y ou. I gotta be honest with you, I 
thought you were dead. 
Milton Bombay: Never felt better in my life. 
Denny Crane: Oh, come on. That's a lie. Look at you. 
How's Sylvie? 
Milton Bombay: Sylvie is dead. 
Denny Crane: Fantastic. And the kids? 
Milton Bombay: Denny, the last time we spoke you mentioned that de spite astronomical odds you 
managed to become yet an even better lawyer. 
Denny Crane: Hard to believe, isn't it? 
Milton Bombay: I have a motion which obviously I'm quite capable o f arguing myself, being more 
talented than you... 
Denny Crane: No, you're not. 
Milton Bombay: I also happen to be the client. The case is also ex tremely unconventional. A 
beat.  I want to be frozen. 
Denny Crane: What do you mean? 
Milton Bombay: I mean I want to be frozen and stored in a cryonic institute. 
Denny Crane: What do you mean? 
Milton Bombay: I'm 78 years old. It won't be long before my body s tarts to wither. I've lived a full 
life. The technology will soon exist that I will be  able to double that life. I wanna be frozen and 
stored until such time that technology becomes a re ality. 
Denny Crane: What do you mean? 
Milton Bombay: I mean when I leave this world I don't want it to b e forever, which means for now I 
wanna frozen! 
Denny Crane: What do you mean? 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in Denny’s office thro ugh an interior window, Paul Lewiston 
and Denny watch Milton take his leave of Brad Chase  and Lori Colson. 
Paul Lewiston: So basically he wants to be euthanized? 
Denny Crane: And preserved on ice. Evidently, there's some Right  To Privacy law I've never 
heard of. 
Paul Lewiston: Why should you? It's in the Constitution. 
Shirley Schmidt : She comes in.  What's Milton Bombay doing here? 
Paul Lewiston: He wants to be frozen and stored in a cryonics faci lity. 
Shirley Schmidt : Raising her hand.  All in favor? 
Paul Lewiston: And he wants Denny to argue it. 
Shirley Schmidt : Huh. And what could possibly occasion him to want  that? 
Paul Lewiston: The problem is the basis of the case, if there is o ne, would lie in the Bill of Rights 
which Denny, of course, feels never should have bee n passed. 
Denny Crane: We're one Supreme Court appointment away from overt urning. 
Shirley Schmidt : The Bill of Rights? 
Denny Crane: Damn right. Red States rule. 
Shirley Schmidt : Paul, there seems to be some psychological defici t in play here. To Denny.  I 
refer to Milton's, not yours. Any person who wants to be frozen should perhaps be referred to a 
therapist, not a lawyer. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, in library, Chelina Ha ll walks up to Alan Shore.  2 Chelina Hall: Hey! Pretty boy. I hear you're looking for some int eresting cases. She and Alan 
shake hands.  Chelina Hall. We haven't officially met. 
Alan Shore: Yes. I've peeped at you in the girls' room, unoffic ially. 
Chelina Hall: Cute. Come with me? She takes him to her office.  Stuart Milch. Alan Shore. 
Stuart Milch: He and Alan shake hands.  A pleasure, sir. Thanks again for agreeing to see me. 
Alan Shore: Not at all. Especially since I’ve made no such agre ement. 
Chelina Hall: Show him the gizmo, Stuart. Stuart places something in Alan’s hand.  Tell him 
what it is, Stuart. 
Stuart Milch: It's called a newsblocker. It’s sold off the Intern et. You attach it to the coaxial input 
on your television. And it basically blocks news tr ansmissions. 
Alan looks at Chelina. 
Chelina Hall: It's true. 
Stuart Milch: My high school principal attached these devices to all the televisions in the building. 
The problem is, it turns out it only blocks only on e network. The most fair and balanced one. All 
the others, kids can watch. 
Alan Shore: It singles out one network only? 
Stuart Milch: Yes, because this network supposedly pushes a Conse rvative agenda. Which is a 
lot of hooey! This is blatant censorship. It furthe r is evidence of a liberal media bias, and I for on e 
am sick of it. He takes the gizmo from Alan.  In all my years. 
Alan Shore: In all his years. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Denny, Shirley and Mil ton are in Denny's office. 
Shirley Schmidt : Milton, I consider you a friend. Actually, I don' t, I find you a bit boorish. But, I 
have always enjoyed your unfettered candor and in t he spirit of that candor, the case cannot be 
won. Given that this is the only lifetime you'll ev er get to have, please don't waste what's left of i t 
in the vast cavernous sinkhole known as our system of jurisprudence. 
Milton Bombay: I made my life in that system. I rose to the very t op of this system. 
Denny Crane: No, you didn't. 
Shirley Schmidt : Milton, no Judge is going to let you be euthanize d and stashed in a Sub-Zero. A 
brand of refrigerator/freezer.  
Milton Bombay: We cannot know that unless we try, Shirley. 
Shirley Schmidt : I know you recently retired. Is this...? 
Milton Bombay: And please do not proffer psychological counsel. I came in here in search of legal 
and intellectual acuity. 
Shirley Schmidt : And you sought out Denny? 
Milton Bombay: I assure you this is something I considered with al l due gravity. I came to a 
decision and now I appeal to you as my attorney to help me execute that decision. Do I make 
myself clear? 
Shirley Schmidt : Perfectly. We're talking about your execution. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Tara Wilson, Brad and Shirley are in the kitchen. 
Tara Wilson: Frozen? 
Brad Chase: That's why he's here? 
Shirley Schmidt : If there's any legal research on point, which I d oubt there is, the sooner the 
better. By way of analogy you might wanna look at a ssisted suicide or right-to-die. Brad, you take 
the math and science because you're male and theref ore more innately qualified. Anything and 
everything you can find on cryonics' technology. 
Lori Colson: She joins the conversation.  Wait. This firm is actually going to help Milton Bo mbay 
be put on ice? 
Catherine Piper: She is there too.  Oh, come now, Lori, you of all people should know i t's not so 
bad to go through life as a Popsicle. 
Lori Colson: What is that supposed to mean? 
Catherine Piper: Nothing. My! Everybody's so sensitive. Can't we all  just get along? She leaves.  
Shirley Schmidt : We go to court this morning so… as fast as you ca n. 
 
Courtroom Judge Peter Harding’s courtroom. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: First of all, students have no vested rights whatso ever to watch any 
news during school.  3 Alan Shore: But they are allowed to do so at Winslow Hall, exce pt for one network. 
Judge Peter Harding:  Ms Tyler, is this particular broadcast being singl ed out on content? 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Even if it is, Your Honor, schools have the right t o legislate content. Just 
as we can search students' lockers. 
Alan Shore: Objection to the spin, Judge. This is a no-spin zon e. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: A school principal is not subject to grounds of rea sonableness when it 
comes to policy. 
Alan Shore: This is the First Amendment in play here. What's ne xt? Burning a few books? 
Judge Peter Harding:  Ms Tyler, I must say, this has a bad stink to it. 
Alan Shore: Ha. 
Judge Peter Harding:  How do you ban one network news program and not th e others? 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: The principal felt this particular network was detr imental. 
Judge Peter Harding:  Well, I wanna hear from the principal in this witn ess chair, or I'm going to 
grant the petitioner's motion right now. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Fine. I can get him here this afternoon. 
Judge Peter Harding:  We'll adjourn for lunch. Be back at 4:00. 
 
At the courthouse, Denny, Milton and Shirley come o ff the elevator and are greeted by the 
media. 
Female Reporter: There they are! Reporters and photographers run up to them. 
Male Reporter: Mr Bombay, why are you doing this? 
Milton Bombay: It's simply about wanting to continue my legacy for  centuries to come. I'm 
perhaps the greatest lawyer of all time and I want that time to continue... 
Denny Crane: No, he's not. I'm better. Denny Crane. I’m better. 
Milton Bombay: ...into the future. 
Denny Crane: How are you, sweetie? Still the king. Denny Crane. 
 
In Judge James Billmeyer’s courtroom. 
Shirley Schmidt : Mr Bombay, you are asking for a court order to en d your life. 
Milton Bombay: Under today's science. Tomorrow might be quite diff erent. 
Shirley Schmidt : But, Sir, let's be realistic. 
Milton Bombay: Why the hell do I have to be realistic? It's my bod y. What do I have to do? Get 
pregnant? 
Shirley Schmidt : Well, you may be couching this in pro-life terms,  but in today's scientific world 
being frozen makes you dead. 
Milton Bombay: I am asking for the chance to be alive in tomorrow' s world. To play with my great 
great great great grandchildren. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  Do you have grandchildren today? 
Milton Bombay: I've got six. All grown. Three of them love me. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  Ha ha, Suppose one of them came into the court at 
say, the age of 30, asking to be frozen? 
Milton Bombay: I'd say wait. You've got a lot of years. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  Well, but maybe they would like it done before thei r 
body starts to go south, which at 30, it can. 
Milton Bombay: Look, I don't advocate this for young, healthy peop le. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  But certainly if you can decide for yourself, so sh ould 
others, right? 
Milton Bombay: I'm close to 80. My life is almost over. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  Does one have to be old to get this autonomy? How 
about somebody 35, with cancer? 
Milton Bombay: If it was incurable? Yes. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  Parkinson's Disease? MS? What if somebody 
wanted to get frozen to avoid the draft? 
Denny Crane: Let him move to Canada. Freeze his balls off. The Judge gives him a look. 
Denny Crane. 
 
At the courthouse, Denny, Shirley and Milton are co ming out of the courtroom. 
Milton Bombay: Why did you do that?  4 Denny Crane: You were getting picked apart. 
Milton Bombay: No, I was not. I was doing just fine. 
Denny Crane: I had to stop the other side's momentum. 
Shirley Schmidt : Boys! 
Milton Bombay: Like shooting spitballs at a battle ship. I was hav ing a real moment in there, and 
you stepped on it! 
Shirley Schmidt : Boys, we need to get back to the office and prepa re our expert. 
Milton Bombay: You stepped on my moment. 
Denny Crane: Did not. 
Shirley Schmidt : Boys! 
Milton Bombay: He did step on it. 
 
In Judge James Billmeyer’s courtroom, Dr. Malcolm F reemont is on the stand. 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: Cryonics proponents don't refer to the patient as d ead, simply, 
"preserved." 
Shirley Schmidt : Frozen? 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: Yes. 
Shirley Schmidt : But, Doctor, if the person's heart isn't beating;  if there's no brain activity, we tend 
to call them dead? 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: Under today's medical definition, yes. But the defi nition of cryonics is 
basically a process using a very cold temperature t o prevent people from dying. 
Denny Crane:  Under his breath to Milton. Where'd we get this quack? 
Milton Bombay: Shhh. 
Shirley Schmidt : Uh, Doctor. Let's be fair. Has anyone ever been b rought back to life after being 
frozen? 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: No, and it's not likely to happen soon. But the tec hnology is changing. 
We're discovering more and more about molecular nan otechnology everyday. And one day, it will 
be a reality. 
Denny Crane: A molecular what? 
Shirley Schmidt : One second, Doctor. She leans in to Denny.  Denny, I'm gonna try something 
here. I don't have time to explain. I just need you  to go with it, okay? Denny nods.  I want you to 
count backwards from a hundred, silently. 
Denny Crane: Why? 
Shirley Schmidt : I'll explain later. It's important. 
Denny Crane: Uh, 99, 98. Shirley motions him to count silently.  
Shirley Schmidt : Okay, Doctor. We've heard that cryonics is in our  future; but, please, give me 
one example, one piece of evidence that indicates t hat this could possibly work. 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: The wood frog. 
Shirley Schmidt : I'm sorry. Did you say, “Wood frog?” 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: Ah, yes. A frog in the Canadian Arctic that hiberna tes and completely 
freezes in the winter. Denny concentrates on counting silently. No heartbeat, no brain activity. 
It goes completely dead by today's definition of de ath. Then in the spring, it wakens, brain activity 
resumes, heart starts beating. It's alive again. 
Shirley Schmidt : And you think, if it's possible for a frog....? 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: Why not for a human? If we can accomplish total met abolic arrest with no 
tissue damage, we will be able to freeze people for  thousands of years and bring them back to 
life. 
Shirley Schmidt : Thank you, Doctor. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  Humans are warm-blooded animals, designed to 
stay at 98 degrees. Those frogs are cold-blooded wi th a completely different molecular structure. 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: Admittedly, the future of cryonics involves the dev elopment of molecular 
technology. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  For which there is no evidence it can work with 
warm-blooded animals. 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: Yes, there is. We have frozen rat livers, thawed th em and transplanted 
them into living rats. In Israel they did it with f rozen hearts. In both cases the rats lived--not for  
long--but the livers and hearts did come back to li fe. With humans, we've frozen heart valves...  5 Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  And you think the idea of freezing people is ethica l? 
Is that consistent with....? 
Dr. Malcolm Freemont: It's evidently ethical to freeze embryos. But again , I'm up here to give you 
the science, not engage in a moral debate. 
Denny is still counting silently. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Denny, Milton and Shir ley are walking in the corridor. 
Milton Bombay: He kicked their ass! And the best part of it was he  had integrity, which is what 
you need in your expert. What'd he cost us? 
Shirley Schmidt : Twenty-five hundred. 
Milton Bombay: The whore! 
Tara Wilson: She comes up.  Schmidt. 
Shirley Schmidt : How we doing? 
Tara Wilson: The leading federal case would be Chiavo. It’s not First Circuit, but since the 
Supreme Court just refused to hear the appeal, we c ould argue its controlling. 
Shirley Schmidt : I want to read it. Can you make me a copy? You wa nt to read it, Denny? 
Denny Crane: Hell, no. He walks away.  
Milton Bombay: To Tara. Can I talk to you in private for a second, please?  They go into the 
conference room.  I uh, I didn't want to embarrass you in front of yo ur superiors, but it seems to 
me the controlling case on this would be Cruzon. Th e whole thrust of Rehnquist's opinion was 
autonomy--the patient's right to decide. 
Tara Wilson: The opinion was muddled. It was essentially three-p ronged: autonomy, the patient's 
best interest, and the state's interest to preserve  life. You'd win on prong one, but you’d likely los e 
on prongs two and three. You're much better off arg uing Chiavo. Milton doesn’t’ reply. Mr 
Bombay? 
Milton Bombay: Yes? 
Tara Wilson: Are you all right? 
Milton Bombay: Ah, yes. It's just that you brought me back to a, a  memory of... I think I was 
happiest as a lawyer when I was a young associate. Ha, ha. Ah, ha. I hated doing all the grunt 
work, but there was all the promise of tomorrow. Shirley comes and stands in conference 
room doorway to listen. Would you have dinner with me tonight, Tara? 
Shirley Schmidt : Milton? Why don't you have it with me? 
 
In Judge Peter Harding’s courtroom, Steven Harper i s on the stand. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Why this one particular network? 
Steven Harper: Look, I know that all the networks pander, some to the Liberals, some to the 
Conservative, but when a news organization goes as far as to actually promote a political 
agenda. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Can I dial you back one second? How do they do that ? 
Steven Harper: Well, first, the broadcasts speak for themselves. T heir CEO used to be the chief 
media operative for former Republican presidents. 
Alan Shore: I object to his open mind, Judge. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Move to strike. 
Judge Peter Harding:  Sustained. 
Steven Harper: And then when I saw the documentary "Outfoxed," it blew my mind. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Because...? 
Steven Harper: Because it detailed the extent to which the media c an go to promote conservative 
Republican causes. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Your Honor, we'd like to show you a brief series of  clips from this 
documentary. 
Clip 1: We weren't necessarily, as it was told to us, a ne ws-gathering organization so much as we 
were a proponent of a point of view. 
Clip 2: They wanted all news to be a matter of opinion. We  were ordered from the top to carry 
propaganda, carry Republican, rightwing, propaganda . 
Clip 3: It was made very clear to us that our activities w ere being monitored, and if someone 
wasn't watching it live, they were at least recordi ng it, and they would review after the fact to see 
what we did.  6 Steven Harper: If you watch the documentary, and I strongly sugges t that you do, you'll see that 
this goes on and on and on, and these accounts are from people on the inside. 
Judge Peter Harding:  Okay. But to put a device on the television? 
Steven Harper: I hate the idea of shutting down free expression, b ut this became more of a safety 
issue. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: A safety issue? 
Steven Harper: They've got their talk show hosts declaring that an yone who is opposed to the 
war is an enemy of the state. A traitor! We're gett ing more and more fights. Kids are being 
attacked for being unpatriotic. Arab and Muslim stu dents are being targeted. Maybe this little 
device is overkill, I admit that, but I've got a hi gh school to run, and the first order of the day is  
keep the kids safe. 
Alan Shore: I thought the first order of an academic community was embracing diversity of 
opinion. 
Steven Harper: Not when it's a bias that fosters intolerance. 
Alan Shore: Did you attach any little blockers to networks that  lie about Presidents, and say… the 
National Guard. 
Steven Harper: I don't dispute there's a Liberal bias, too. 
Alan Shore: But you don't censure those networks. 
Steven Harper: Those networks don't foster intolerance. 
Alan Shore: Any blockers for shock jocks? Or is racism a misogy ny not a concern? 
Steven Harper: Look, there's a lot of garbage out there. I'll admi t that. 
Alan Shore: What about your own teachers? 
Steven Harper: My teachers? 
Alan Shore: A recent poll showed six out of seven college profe ssors voted for John Kerry. Does 
that not suggest a bias in academia, Mr Harper? 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Objection. 
Alan Shore: We've got countless news programs. Too many talk sh ows to keep track of, all kinds 
of opinions being spewed out over the air waves. Ex tremes to the left, to the right. And the only 
thing you block...? 
Steven Harper: That's actually not true. There’s all kinds of prog rams we don't permit. 
Alan Shore: But this is the only news show? 
Steven Harper: Look, what does it say that they make a device to b lock out this particular news 
network? 
Alan Shore: It says that censorship is popular. That doesn't ma ke it right. 
Steven Harper: And as principal I have to make that call. And let me say this: I am a proud 
American. I got a flag on my porch. I pray for thos e troops every night. I taught some of those 
kids. They're over there fighting for democracy whi ch includes the right for you to question your 
government. And for this network to be saying other wise offends me as a citizen and as a 
principal. 
Alan Shore: I see. So…? You're squashing content to promote dem ocracy. 
Steven Harper: Once again, I will shut down any content that foste rs intolerance. That is where I 
stand. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Shirley is in her offi ce. 
Denny Crane: He comes in.  You’re going to dinner? With him? 
Shirley Schmidt : I wanna find out what’s really going on here. 
Denny Crane: What’s going on is a runaway ego. It’s all about sp otlight. The man wishes he were 
me. 
Shirley Schmidt : We all wish that, Denny. 
Denny Crane: I know Mi... I, I go way back with Milton. I know M ilton like the back of my hand. He 
knows he’s gonna lose that motion. No risk of him b eing frozen. In the meantime he’s all over the 
news. I’m tellin’ ya, man wants to be me! 
Shirley Schmidt : Even so. I’m gonna have a little talk with him. 
Denny Crane: He’s gonna insist you go to Nicky Blair’s. Watch. 
Shirley Schmidt : Sorry? 
Denny Crane: He pays them to let him sing. 
Shirley Schmidt : I beg your pardon?  7 Denny Crane: He slips the maître d' a hundred bucks to come over  to the table and say, “Please, 
Mr Bombay, sing us a song.” It’s all about the lime light with Milton. I promise ya. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Alan is in his office.  Chelina is with him. 
Chelina Hall: What do you mean, lose? We’re on the side of the Fi rst Amendment. 
Alan Shore: The problem is school principals do have a wide dis cretion. And the material is 
arguably inflammatory. If they can classify it as d isruptive speech. Plus, I don’t know which 
newscast you’ve been watching recently but, the Fir st Amendment is losing its luster lately. Some 
networks are even censoring their scripted dramas. 
Chelina Hall: So what do we go with if not freedom of expression?  
TV announcer:  Meanwhile, actor Vince Odoms, you know him as the judge in the Michael 
Jackson reenactment trial, has abruptly quit, to go  play Phil Spector in the reenactment of that 
trial on a competing network. FBS president Rick Si lverman is threatening to sue, claiming the 
actor is under contract, and it would be a material  breech to walk in the middle of ongoing 
litigation. Meanwhile, it was learned today the Los  Angelo’s County Sheriff’s office reportedly…  
 
In a restaurant. 
Milton Bombay: So? What’s the point? 
Shirley Schmidt : The point? 
Milton Bombay: Of us having dinner. What’s the point? If it’s sexu al, I’ll need notice, so I can take 
my little pill. 
Shirley Schmidt : You asked to have dinner with Tara? What was the point of that? 
Milton Bombay: With her, I wouldn’t need a pill. 
Shirley Schmidt : You’ve talked a wonderful game about the future. About wanting to perpetuate 
your legacy into the next century. But, when you we re talking to Tara, what I observed was a man 
looking backwards. A man, who, perhaps is lonely. 
Milton Bombay: You’ve got it wrong. 
Shirley Schmidt : I saw melancholy, Milton. And melancholy accompan ied by the desire to be 
dead… Is this Milton Bombay looking to check out in  a way that doesn’t tarnish his grand 
reputation? Denny thinks you don’t want to win this  case. Which would explain your hiring him. 
But you also hired me. You lost your wife, your job …Are you just giving up, Milton? 
Milton Bombay: Let me tell you something. As science and medicine continue to evolve, so must 
the law to keep pace! I’m blazing the trail as a pa tient today so I can continue to set the standard 
as a lawyer tomorrow. That’s what this is about! 
Shirley Schmidt : Okay. 
Maître d': Mr Bombay, the band and some of the patrons have r equested that you grace us with a 
song tonight. 
Milton Bombay: Yes. Tell em to vamp, ‘She’s Making Eyes’, I’ll be right up, Walter. 
Maître d': Excellent. Thank you, sir. 
Milton Bombay: I happen to believe in reincarnation. And I also be lieve things even out. Given the 
hand I was dealt this time. I could be in for some serious hardships the next go-around. And I 
don’t want that in my next life. I wanna be me all over again. Milton Bombay! 
Shirley Schmidt : Got it. 
MC: Ladies and gentlemen! A treat! A special guest per formance from that legendary barrister, 
Milton Bombay! 
Applause.  
Milton Bombay: Thank you. Thank you. Good to be here folks. Here’s  one of my favorites. I hope 
it’s one of yours too. 
Ma! She makin eyes at me. 
Ma! She’s awful nice to me. 
Ma! She’s almost breakin my heart. 
I’m beside her. 
Mercy let her conscience guide her. 
Ma! She wants to marry me. 
Be my honeybee. 
Every minute she gets bolder. 
Now she’s leaning on my shoulder. 
Ma! She’s kissing me!  8 Applause.  
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Denny is in his office , Milton is with him. 
Milton Bombay: What do you mean you’re closing? What happened to S hirley? 
Denny Crane: Milton. There’s a reason you came to me in the firs t place. In your gut you know 
I’m better than you. Go with your gut. 
Milton Bombay: I’d sooner gonna go with my intestine. I prefer Shi rley doing the closing. 
Shirley Schmidt : She comes in.  I’m not doing it. To Denny. And neither are you. 
Denny Crane: Well, who does that leave? Uh, um, Tammy? 
Milton Bombay: Tara. 
Shirley Schmidt : As I said from the start, the law doesn’t support  us here. If we’re going to get a 
court order allowing you to die, which would be the  result in today’s world. That Judge is going to 
have to hear from you. 
Milton Bombay: He did hear from me. 
Shirley Schmidt : I don’t think so. If this is only about you getti ng to perpetuate your legacy in the 
next century, I’m afraid you’re gonna have to make do with sustaining it in this one. You need to 
do better. And Milton, for my money, any guy who’s asking to get stuck in a freezer isn’t that 
desperate to live. 
 
In Judge Peter Harding’s courtroom. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: Every major media watchdog group has labeled this n ews program as 
the most biased, right wing news program on televis ion. 
Judge Peter Harding: So what? Political bias is rampant throughout the n ews business. Including 
Liberal bias. 
Attorney Elizabeth Tyler: We’re not talking about just a slant, Judge. A rece nt poll showed that the 
more people watch this news show, the less they kno w about foreign policy, and the more 
inclined they are to support the government. Now th at may be good team spirit, but it’s 
disgraceful journalism. 
Judge Peter Harding: But come on. You talk about a democracy. What kind of principal censors 
free expression? 
Steven Harper: Um, Your Honor? If I may? The Judge nods.  Any principal has the right, if not 
the obligation to rail against biased wherever he s ees it. You saw that tape! 
Judge Peter Harding: Which was also biased and self-serving. 
Steven Harper: Their most popular commentator threatens retributio n against those who descent. 
It almost rises to the level of hate speech, and if  in my view, it jeopardizes the welfare of the 
students, I certainly have the authority to shut it  down. 
Judge Peter Harding: Mr Shore, this is a school. Is it wise to expose st udents to programs which 
send a message you’re anti-American if you question  the government? 
Alan Shore: Your Honor, before we convict them as the network o f Conservative values, or any 
values for that matter, let’s remember these are th e folks who brought you Joe Billionaire and 
Who’s your Papa? 
Judge Peter Harding: That’s the entertainment division, Mr Shore. I’m ta lking about the news. 
Alan Shore: And I’m telling you it’s all the same. This isn’t a bout political content. This is 
corporation looking to make money. They began as al ternative news programming to grab a 
market share. They saw ratings and profit in a Cons ervative demographic and they’ve been 
waving the flag ever since and so what! News today,  all of it, is infotainment. Last February a 
deadly toxin known as Rizen was found in the mail r oom of the Senate majority leader. Headline 
news led with Janet Jackson’s exposed breast. A mon th ago, while we’re in the middle of a war, 
news casts all across the country led with Prince H arry’s costume at a keg party. It’s a business! 
And while some news groups go with the deeper socia l issues like Brad and Jennifer’s breakup, 
the one here chooses to run with red, white and blu e. And by the way, before you vilify them, a 
survey done in 2002 revealed that 70 percent of the  people in this country believe it is good when 
news organizations take a strong, pro-American, poi nt of view. 70 percent! 
Judge Peter Harding: Does that make it right? 
Alan Shore: Of course it makes it right! Because the rule in in fotainment is, give the people what 
they want. This is money, Your Honor, not politics.  Let me say, I am a great lover of the news. 
Judge Peter Harding: I can see that.  9 Alan Shore: I watch it all. On days like 9/11 or for other worl d-changing events the news 
programs are nothing short of spectacular. When Mar tin Luther King delivered I Have a Dream. 
When President Kennedy was shot. When we walked on the moon. The Ted Offensive? Are lives 
are shaped by these events, in part because of the news. But on all other days they’re 
businesses, looking to compete like anybody else in  a highly competitive marketplace. They sell 
product. And even if you’re determined to believe t hat this particular network is some evil empire 
looking to spread right-wing propaganda, that still  doesn’t change the fact that we’re in this room 
today, because a principal is shutting down the exp ression of ideas simply because he disagrees 
with the content. If anything needs a champion toda y, it’s the First Amendment. In a recent poll, 
half of today’s high school students thought newspa pers should get government approval of 
stories before publishing them. The First Amendment  has become an endangered species, and 
here we have a high school principal practicing cen sorship. My, my. We do have a problem. 
 
In Judge James Billmeyer’s courtroom, Assistant Att orney General Doug Beecham is 
giving his closing. 
Assistant Attorney General Doug Beecham:  There is nothing in the law to support Mr Bombay’s  
request that he be assisted in his quest to die. An d that’s what this is. Assisted suicide. Now, we 
hear a lot of talk about personnel autonomy. But th ere is a sanctity to life, Your Honor. A State 
has interest in that sanctity. If we erode that in any way, well…  we make the idea of suicide more 
acceptable. Perhaps more conceivable for the troubl ed teenager or the depressed mother. You 
say suicide in some situations is an option. But we  have an overriding State interest, and a 
humane one, in not sending that message. 
Denny Crane: He gets up, Shirley stops him.  You… 
Shirley Schmidt : That was beautiful, now sit. 
A beat. 
Milton Bombay: At the risk of sounding immodest, I am one of the g reatest lawyers, possibly the 
greatest to grace the courtrooms of this commonweal th. Denny Crane tries to get up, possibly 
to protest, Shirley stops him. And just the possibility of being to still try case s in the twenty-
second century. Uh, A long pause.  I have ALS. In a few months I’ll lose motor contro l, control of 
my bowels, my brain will begin to… ha, ha. In a yea r or so I’ll be dead. Legends shouldn’t die like 
that. I don’t wanna die like that. Cryonics might n ot work, but a hundred years ago nobody was 
talking about cloning, or the human genome, and a h undred years from now, who knows what’s 
possible? I truly, truly, love life, and the chance  to be living again seems preferable to eternal 
nothingness. And uh, ha, well, what, what Red Sox f an wouldn’t jump at the chance to lie next to 
Ted Williams? I realize, Your Honor, that no Judge would do what I’m asking for. He walks over 
to the table, then turns back.  Do it anyway, 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Milton Bombay is out o n the balcony puffing on a cigar. 
Denny joins him.. 
Denny Crane: Why didn’t you tell me you were sick? 
Milton Bombay: Because I’m a tree. When I fall I want it to be in a forest. 
Denny Crane: What the hell does that mean? 
Milton Bombay: It means I didn’t want anybody to know. I don’t wan na be pitied. All I want is to 
be… 
Denny Crane: Denny Crane. They both take a puff on their cigars.  Mine’s bigger. You know... 
I’ve always admired you, Milton. 
Milton Bombay: I’m not dead yet. When is the Judge gonna rule? 
Denny Crane: Said by tonight. 
 
In Judge Peter Harding’s courtroom. 
Judge Peter Harding: I grew up watching Walter Cronkite. It was a time t he news seemed to be 
fair, objective, trusted. In fact whenever we doubt ed the blather coming out of the politician’s 
mouths, it was the press we turned to get a sense o f the truth. Well. Walter Cronkite has definitely 
left the building. When it comes to credibility, bi g media is dead. Networks pander. Some to 
Conservatives, others to Liberals. This past electi on you could turn to one channel to see 
President Bush ahead, turn to another to see Kerry leading. Ridiculous. And I agree with Mr 
Shore, it’s probably more about money than ideology . And being about money, well, why 
shouldn’t networks be free to adopt a bias in hopes  of attracting a bigger audience? This is  10  America. Mr Harper, I realize times have changed in  the high schools as well. Hate violence is on 
the rise. Administrators have to be freer to curtai l students of liberties including disruptive speech . 
But attaching a device to a television that blocks out a certain network because of the content? 
That seems to go too far. It’s censorship, Sir. And  I can’t let it stand. The motion for the plaintive  
is granted. He pounds his gavel and leaves the bench.  
Stuart Miltch:  I don’t know what to say, Mr Shore. You were incre dibly brilliant. 
Alan Shore: Yes. 
Chelina Hall: If there’s any retribution at the school, let us kn ow. 
Stuart Miltch:  Yeah, I will. Thank you both. Your country thanks you. He leaves.  
Alan Shore: To Chelina.  My country thanks me. 
 
In Judge James Billmeyer’s courtroom. All parties p resent.  
Denny Crane: To Milton.  This is where he gives his ruling. 
Milton Bombay: Thank you. 
Judge James Billmeyer:  Mr Bombay, it seems ironic, if not indecent, that the State’s interest in 
preserving life should mandate that you should die a wrenching and painful death, rather than be 
frozen in hopes of finding a cure. But that is the law as it stands today. We live in a country that 
celebrates individual liberties and personnel auton omy, but when it comes to controlling your own 
destiny, this is a freedom that does not yet ring. I will pray for you, but I cannot grant you your 
request. Your motion is denied. He pounds his gavel. God bless you. 
Shirley Schmidt : I’m sorry. 
Denny Crane: We can appeal. Next time I’ll close. 
Milton Bombay: That’s all right. That’s all right. I’m a, I’m head ing for Arizona, try my luck with the 
courts down there. 
Shirley Schmidt : Milton. No court anywhere is going to rule in you r favor. 
Milton Bombay: Even so. There’s a Cryonics facility there, so when ever the time comes…  
Shirley Schmidt : Do you know anybody in Arizona? 
Milton Bombay: No. And that’s the point. I don’t wanna deteriorate  in front of my…  
Shirley Schmidt : Clearly you’re not inclined to follow my advice, but do not go off to die alone. 
Milton Bombay: Hey. You live your way, Shirley, I’ll die mine. I’m  entitled to be remembered for… 
A beat. Ah. Thank you both for your efforts. He walks away.  
Denny Crane: He goes after Milton.  Milton. Milton! We go way back you and I. 
Milton Bombay: Ha. Let’s not get carried away. We were worthy adve rsaries, occasional drinking 
buddies, but it’s not as if we had great affection for one another. 
Denny Crane: Anyway… He clasps Milton’s hand.  We’ll see ya, Milton. 
Milton Bombay: Oh. Yeah. See ya. See ya, Den… Denny grabs his arm, then moves in to give 
him a hug. They share a long hug as Denny pats Milt on on the back.  
Denny Crane: Good bye, my friend. 
Milton Bombay: Bye. Good bye. Good bye. 
 
At Crane, Poole and Schmidt, Denny is out on the ba lcony. 
Alan Shore: He joins Denny.  Sorry. 
Denny Crane: Hey. People get old. Get sick. Happens to everybody . 
Alan Shore: How close were you? 
Denny Crane: It’s not that we went that deep. It’s… we went…  
Alan Shore: Way back. 
Denny Crane: You can be larger than life, just not dead. 
Alan Shore: He went off to Arizona? 
Denny Crane: Yeah. I really admired him more than… A beat.  You go through life and you never 
tell people how much you care about em, when… Peopl e should probably do that more, you 
know? 
Alan Shore: I care about you. 
Denny Crane: I wasn’t fishing for that. Fish for steelhead, not mush. 
Alan Shore: I care about you, Denny. You don’t have to say it b ack. 
Denny Crane: Wasn’t planning to. 